when we've had big movements in trade
deals that it does create a lot of
volatility. It does create a lot of
noise. Quite quickly, we're looking to
come to agreements. We're expecting an
average effective tariff rate of around
14 to 15% by year end. I don't think
these tariff deals are going to be done
that quickly. I do think the tariff
uncertainty will continue. We're all
looking at sort of the black box right
now, waiting as this information comes
out. This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, closing out Q2. The S&P 500
sitting at all-time highs looking to cap
off a 10% advance even as the big
beautiful bill hits some increased
resistance in the Senate and trade
partners struggle to strike a deal
before the July 9 deadline.
I'm going to send letters. That's the
end of the trade deal. We will say,
"Congratulations, we're allowing you to
shop in the United States of America.
You're going to pay a 25% tariff or 35%
or 50% or or 10% A busy July is just
around the corner. Yeah. And the
question really is, are we overly
pessimistic or are we too uh are we too
optimistic at a time when you are coming
off record highs for US equities? Good
for stocks, good for bonds. They just
had the best month going back to
February. So, at a certain point, are we
baking in too much good news heading
into this July 4th or July 9th deadline?
or as I see Steve Shiverone sitting next
to me shaking his head about my
pessimism. Are we overly pessimistic
because things have continued to grind
higher and we still have a lot of stocks
that are lagging behind? We said this on
Friday going into the weekend, it's
worth repeating again. A 10% rally on
the S&P 500 in the same quarter we had
April 2nd. Think back to April second.
That is absolutely phenomenal. And even
with these two deadlines, Lisa talk
through them. July 4th, July 9th, both
are set to slide at this point. Both
July 4th and July 9th. Well, they are
self-imposed. So maybe that's a reason
why potentially they could slide in and
of itself them accepting that. But
really when it comes to the one big
beautiful bill, this is going to be a
fight because not only does majority
leader John Thoon have to get a handful
of senators across the finish line,
which comes back to the basics we have
been talking about from the very
beginning, you have these different
factions. Those that want to see less
spending, the fiscal hawks, those that
want to see more healthc care benefits,
and those that are really concerned
about what's going on with the
renewables. Once you give a concession
to one group, you create a whole host of
problems in another group. And even if
Senator Thun is able to do this within
the next 12 to 16 hours, then the House
has to decide, are they going to
capitulate and accept what the Senate
gave them or are they going to have
their own fight? This is business for
Friday. Before we get to Friday, we need
to deal with payrolls Thursday. Yes,
payrolls Thursday. The estimate in our
survey at the moment, 113 is the median
estimate. That is down from a previous
read of 139. So this is the question
that I have. There's a lot of payrolls
risk baked into the market. This
according to a whole host of different
analysts over the weekend and I'm just
wondering what is that risk at a time
when people are expecting a low print to
not necessarily represent weakness but
just the low churn of less immigration,
less hiring and less firing. How do we
understand this roarshock test of
numbers? Is it fair to say the debate
will continue beyond Thursday into the
weekend? That's a neat way of putting
it. stocks will maybe sit there at all
time highs and just ignore it. Well,
that's that's the question. What's the
sort of uh you know come to Jesus moment
in markets where suddenly you start to
say hold on a second we can identify a
trend and it's to the weaker point and
can you get the Fed cutting rates
without that type of clarity because if
you can then you're in the Mike Wilson
camp. All systems go things can keep
grinding higher. If you're not there is
a question about whether this Fed's
going to be too late. We'll see cracks.
Equity markets grinding higher this
morning up another 0.4% on the S&P 500.
Coming up this hour, Steve Chevron of
Federated Hermes is with stocks looking
to add to record highs. The former
senior White House trade adviser
Kellyanne Shaw on the latest trade
negotiations and Adich of Bank of
America looking ahead to Thursday's
payrolls report. We begin this hour with
stocks looking to close out a big Q2.
Steve Chevron of Federated writing the
following. We expect the grind higher in
equities to continue as investors that
overreacted to April continue to get
pulled into the market. Steve joins us
now for more. Steve, good morning sir.
Good morning. It's good to see you. Lisa
mentioned Mike Wilson over at Morgan
Stanley. His line this morning, the
rally has been more fundamentally driven
than many appreciate. Would you agree
with that? Yeah, I think that's the
point that we were making in the quote
you just had up, right? There's a
there's a tendency when you're caught
short and the market rallies hard on you
to want to discount that rally and then
all of a su and look at the beginning of
every rally it's short covering or it's
a bounce or it's hey tariffs got delayed
not cancelled and then other things
start to happen right the Fed gets
closer to cutting which you can see that
pressure is mounting I think even pal
kind of hinted that September is likely
to happen you start seeing things like
the big beautiful bills start to move
through the pipeline um you every
reconciliation bill fails at least twice
before it passes. So nothing that's
happening this week really kind of has
me thrown off there. Um trade deals of
some kind are likely to come. A and
underneath, you know, earnings estimates
have stabilized uh after falling right
in the immediate aftermath of April. So
it what what started out as just a
relief rally is starting to become
something real and that's what sucks
those investors in slowly and
reluctantly. Is that despite the data or
because of the data? The data is in an
interesting place right now because one
of the missing ingredients here is the
Fed moving. Um, and you're in a scenario
where if data was too hot, um, then the
Fed has all the excuse that they need to
remain on the sidelines. Whereas the
data is softening enough. It's softening
in a way that suggests the economy is
slowing but not softening in a way that
suggests that there's a major problem.
It's the same thing that Lisa mentioned
with the payroll report, right? It's
slower. It's showing less grind, but
it's not showing massive layoffs. And I
think that kind of slower data that
pulls the Fed in but isn't indicative of
a major economic problem um is being
seen by this market as a positive. This
is the key point I think is that Mike
Wilson pointing to the idea of good rate
cuts, not necessarily any rate cuts
going to be a bad thing because it's
only going to come on really weak
economic data. And that's kind of what
you're suggesting as well. Why are we
morphing into that again when that was
actually anathema to what everybody
believed just a month or two ago? Well,
not everybody. Um
That's been what we've been screaming. I
mean, look, I've been on this show at
least once or twice a month for the last
several months, and we've been wanting
the Fed to move in the direction of at
least preparing the market for cuts. And
the reason why is not because we see a
big problem, but because if the Fed can
move earlier and gradually, then you
have an economy that's slowing and it is
the good kind of cut. It's preventing a
problem from coming. If you wait too
long and you let those pressures in the
economy build, then you find yourself
behind the curve and you're in a
scenario where you've got to cut much
quicker and it's because you have a
problem. So I I think you're on that
cusp here. Um and and if they move in
the next two meetings, I think that's
probably fine. So we've been talking
extensively about how the S&P 500 is not
the economy and increasingly we've seen
this divergence and it's increasingly
being led by the big tech names and it
really hasn't been led by everything
else. you're starting to see small signs
of broadening out, but how crucial is
that broadening out to this idea that
this is a durable rally that can get to
7500 within the next 18 months? I I
don't know that it's been that narrow. I
mean, it has been narrow, but remember
during the April sell-off, MAG7 got to a
2 threeyear cheap in terms of valuation.
It was the one thing we bought and you
know, we've been in the camp of kind of
broadening out now for a couple of
years. But during that selloff, it
really was the large cap tech that took
a big brunt. What you've seen since
though is look at small caps. Small caps
have participated since the April 9th
bottom. Um it's some of the value names
that have underperformed but that's
because their last earning season was a
little disappointing. So I think yes it
has been growthled. I don't think this
is just a story of growth though. I
think this is a little bit broader. I do
expect you'll see it broaden out. I
don't know that you have to right now. I
think this is a pretty healthy
rotational rally. When you look at the
tax and spending bill going through
Congress and you say it's going to be
moderately stimulative to the domestic
economy. What parts of the domestic
economy? Well, I think you're doing a
couple of things. I I think you have to
take it into account with tariffs and
the tariff revenue assuming something
like a 10% across the board. When you do
all of a sudden what looks like a two or
three trillion increase to the debt just
from the one big beautiful bill becomes
something when you add tariff revenue
that's basically debt neutral. If you
add in a little bit of a higher growth
rate, you can actually get to deficit
reducing over the next 10 years. So,
it's not a big huge stimulus bill where
you're blowing out the deficit. Um, but
what you do see is using some of that
tariff revenue of which probably half is
borne by the US taxpayer, half by a
foreign taxpayer, you're then delivering
$4.5 trillion of tax cut extensions,
plus a little bit extra. But does the
American consumer feel it? If they're
getting a tax cut from Washington, but
they're paying more for their everyday
goods because of a increase in tariff
from goods coming into the United
States, is it basically just equal? Do
they cancel each other out? If you were
just extending the 2017 cuts, I would
say yes. Then it cancels out. I think
what you have here though is lower and
middle inome Americans feel the brunt of
those price hikes the most. Rich people
don't get paid in tips.
Rich people don't get paid in overtime.
I mean, I I've tried to reclassify my
bonus as a tip, but it doesn't work.
Like, but but the point I'm making is is
that when you actually think about those
those particular new provisions, no tax
on tips, no tax on social security,
those are really designed to help out
lower middle- inome Americans that would
feel those higher prices. And then I
think the other provision you can't
sleep on is the immediate expensing of
capex because in the past that's always
been equipment but this is plant and
equipment which I think will allow
companies who might be reticent and want
to wait out the administration in terms
of investing in the United States to
have such a good deal on plant and
equipment that they may do it now.
Steven Marin promised to sort out that
bonus stuff, didn't he? Last time he
joined us, he said he would he would
talk with the with the management. Let's
see how that goes. Looking ahead to
payrolls on Thursday, Steve, just to
squeeze this in, the estimate in our
survey is 113. There's a whole bunch of
reasons why we might get a softer than
expected print down near 100K. Does the
market have the capacity to absorb a
downside surprise on Thursday morning. I
think it does depending on how the Fed
reacts. I mean, the labor market has
clearly slowed, right? Whether or not
that number is a little higher or a
little lower, we know it slowed. You can
see it. You see it in wage inflation.
You see it in some of the claims data.
Um, it has slowed. And so the question
is, is that slowing going to be met with
more dovish policy and then it's just a
slowing and doesn't morph into something
more significant? I expect it will. Um,
but we'll see. Any sign of that coming
from Chairman Powell? I, you know, as as
as much as he's been locked in, um, you
know, I I think I saw the first set of
cracks at testimony last week. You know,
what stood out for you?
this idea that he a admitted that most
of the committee sees cuts this year and
b he seemed to hint that September would
likely be in play unless we had a big
inflation surprise. I mean look in a
perfect world I think it probably should
be July but if it's September versus
July you know that's probably not the
end of the world. Steve, it's good to
see you. Constructive and right through
much of Q2. Unexpected a few months ago
being constructive and bullish this
market in early April. That was
dangerous stuff back then. Sounds great
now, but that was a trade for the brave
back in early April. And now it's a
trade for the preient when you look back
and the question is really can we
continue forward with the same kind of
momentum at a time where there are these
big risks and what Steve is pointing to
is all those people who are still saying
are we too optimistic are the reason why
this market will continue to go higher.
Steve mentioned chairman pow. Chairman
Pal will be speaking tomorrow in central
Portugal alongside a whole bunch of
central bankers. So look out for that in
the next couple of days. In the
meantime, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Yahara Arnand. Hey Yahara. Good morning
John. Senate Majority Leader John Thoon
is working to pass President Donald
Trump's tax and spending bill by July
4th. But Thoon is facing opposition from
eight Republican senators and must find
a compromise between fa factions of his
party. Some are pushing for deeper
spending cuts while others are seeking
more funding for health benefits and
renewable energy subsidies.
Meanwhile, Canada is making a move to
try to jumpst start trade talks with the
US. It is withdrawing its digital
services tax on technology companies
such as Meta Platforms and Alphabet.
This comes after Trump said on Friday he
was ending all trade talks with Canada
in retaliation for the digital tax. and
online retailers Tim Teimu and Shien
have seen user growth plunge after
President Trump imposed steep tariffs on
Chinese goods and ended the dimminimous
loophole. The Financial Times is
reporting Timu's monthly US active users
plunged more than 50% to about 40
million users March through June. It
reports the companies have switched
their focus to Europe. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John Yhara, thank you.
More from Yhara in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, the tax
bill hitting some resistance. I want to
move on to the big beautiful bill. You
think you're going to get it in that
timing. Problem is if we're two days
late or 5 days late, everybody says,
"Oh, he had a tremendous value."
Whatever it is, as long as we have it,
it's very important. Up next on a
program, we'll catch up with Terry
Haynes of Pangia Policy and get you the
latest from the nation's capital with
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
9:40 this morning, 9:40 Eastern time. Do
not miss this conversation. The Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson sitting down with
Bloomberg TV on taxes, on trade, on this
market. In this market right now, equity
futures positive once again by 0.4% 4%
coming into Monday at all-time highs and
we add some weight to the rally on the
NASDAQ up another 0.65.
Elsewhere under surveillance this
morning, the tax bill hitting some
resistance.
I want to move on to the big beautiful
bill. Do you think you're going to get
it in that timing? I don't know. I mean,
I can't tell you that. I hate to say
yes. I'd like to say yes, but the
problem is if we're 2 days late or 5
days late, everybody says, "Oh, he had a
tremendous bad year." Whatever it is, as
long as we have it, it's very important.
If we don't have it, there's a 68% tax
increase. If we don't have it, you know,
the debt ceiling extension is very
important. It's the latest this morning.
The deadline for President Trump's big,
beautiful bill could slide as the
legislation faces push back from his own
party.
We owe it to the American people and I
owe it to the people of North Carolina
to withhold my affirmative vote until
it's demonstrated to me that we've done
our homework. Joining us now to discuss
is Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Tyler,
good morning and welcome back to the
program. Just how strong is this push
back from the Republican party over the
weekend?
Yeah, hey John, good morning. Well, we
know at least two Republicans who are
likely nos and that could serve a
problem for Senate Majority Leader John
Thoon because he can really only afford
to lose one more before he has to call
in Vice President JD Vance to cast a
tiebreaking vote. Now, one of them we
just heard from that's Senator Tom
Tillis, a Republican from North
Carolina. He's raised concerns about
changes to Medicaid, including lowering
the Medicaid provider tax, as well as
how quickly some of these clean energy
tax credits are going to be phased out.
The second, as you see right there, is
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, who wants
to see deeper spending cuts and really
won't vote for any legislation that
lifts the debt ceiling. And that really
illustrates the two factions here. Yes,
they agree on sort of the core tenants
of this bill when it comes to the tax
cuts, but they are on completely
separate ends when it comes to the
spending cuts. And there's about six
other Republicans that we are closely
watching that are on the fence. And
Senate Majority Leader John Thun is
going to have to really get them over
the finish line if they want to pass
this by July 4th. Now, to give you sort
of the stakes that we're working with,
the Senate's going to reconvene today at
9:00 a.m. Eastern. They're going to kick
off what's known as a voter where
essentially Democrats are going to
introduce amendments, try to force some
politically fraught votes, and drag out
the process. That could take up to 12
hours to complete. But once it's done,
then the Senate would vote on final
passage, which John means the Senate
could potentially look at passing this
if they have the votes as early as
tonight or tomorrow morning. Tyler
Kendall with the latest in Washington.
Tyler, thank you. To build on that,
Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy joins us
now. Terry, in your opinion, is this
real authentic resistance or just a
little bit of theater before the
ultimate inevitable later this weekend?
Uh, good morning, John. I'm in the
theater category I think today and I
enjoy theater but uh it is theater they
you know you
political bodies always wrangle around
for votes and this is a situation where
uh there are 53 votes that absolutely
matter and they're jockeying for the
most they can get in a in a situation
but at the end of the day here they come
together and if anything uh uh the
weekend saga with Senator Tillis is a is
pre foreshadows that because you got a
situation where uh you know there was so
much pressure put on him he's decided
not to run for reelection. These guys
all like their seats and they uh they're
probably going to want to stay. Terry,
when it comes to who has the leverage
right now when it the competing factions
in the Senate, which group is it?
Um fundamentally I think it's the people
that are kind of the harder core versus
the softer there. I mean obviously
there's more of them number one. Number
two, they're they're pushing as hard as
they can to get this thing done. They
will make whatever smaller
accommodations they have to to the other
faction to get some things done. Uh but
don't look for the Senate to
automatically morph into uh kind of flip
over to the soft side wholesale. When it
comes to how this legislation, this
process all comes together, what is
going on with the bird rule? Do you
think we're setting up a president now
where any party can come in and
basically set policy um and extend that
policy within the next 10 years? Oh, I
think that's been going on for for 60
years through the reconciliation
process. Frankly, uh let me also say on
the bird rule, the what the bird rule is
is a germanineous rule by which I mean,
you know, whether or not it should be,
you know, some provision ought to be in
a budget bill or not, whether it has
budget impact at all. And uh you know
those are rules of the Senate and uh you
know I know there's all this kurfuffle
about Liz Mcdana the parliamentarian but
uh what she's doing is faithfully
executing her job as a staffer the
parliamentarian to uh to interpret and
finalize rules that the Senate itself uh
has put into place. Uh so this is not a
situation where the you know the staff's
hijacking some process you know and and
it's uh and it's a terrible thing to for
any elected official to blame a staffer
for that sort of thing. Uh this is a
situation where the uh you know the the
the rules governing the particular
budget process uh are in play. But back
to your point though uh both parties
have been gaming this system for 60
years and I expect that to continue.
Yes. Terry, you said initially that you
do think this is more theater than an
actual fissure in the Republican party
that could styy this bill. And yet,
we're all playing the numbers game over
the weekend, that the senators, the
congressional, the Republican senators
can only afford to lose three votes. And
currently, there are four that are on
the line. There's Ron Paul, Lisa
Marowski, Susan Collins, and now Tom
Tillis, who isn't running for
reelection, isn't necessarily
constrained by potentially being primar.
Who caves on that front? Why do you see
this is still getting over the finish
line? Uh because the the the the
sequence of votes, generally speaking,
what uh I think what Senator Mowsky,
Senator Collins get uh is a little bit
of softening on Medicaid provisions,
maybe some other things that they're
interested in. Senator Marowski is
always standing up for Alaska Energy and
as she should uh and she'll work on that
and uh and at the end of the day what
you're going to have then once those
those accommodations are made then
you're going to have a situation where
you have 52 on one side and Rand Paul on
the other and they will vote for final
passage there. So, we spent a lot of
time ringing our hands earlier this year
talking about the increasing budget
deficit in the United States and how
this was going to cause some sort of
bond vigilante moment where you get real
push back in the bond market. We just
had the best month for the bond market
in terms of performance going back to
February. At the same time that the
committee for responsible federal budget
says that this current iteration of the
one big beautiful bill is going to add
$3.9 trillion to the deficit over the
next decade. Which is it? Do you think
that people are being a little overly
sanguin about what this does to the
deficit or do you think like we heard
from Steve Chveron that they're going to
be real offsets that we haven't
accounted for? Uh well, two things. One,
whoever is doing the interview with uh
with Secretary Bess and I hope uh
they'll acknowledge that he was
absolutely correct on the uh on how he
thought markets would react in the
medium and long term here both on uh
both on equities and in bonds. Uh he
called that and a lot of people didn't.
Um that secondly uh Sanguin I don't know
the uh you know the the rules by which
uh the CBO and uh and outside groups uh
you know concoct their uh concoct their
views are artificial and they exclude
lots of things like uh uh like the
impact of tariffs and and and growth
frankly. So yeah, I'm on Ste team Steve
on this one I think. Terry, when it
comes to how this actually gets to the
president's desk, what's going to happen
in the House? Does the Freedom Caucus
just fold like they did in 2017?
Um, I've I've been for 3 months now been
in the uh been advising markets that
this thing was going to happen on or
around July 4th and now here we are. Uh,
and I've also for probably uh a couple
of months now been advising that uh the
whole purpose here is the Senate's going
to jam the House and the Senate bill
will be the final bill. And I still
think that and frankly if you listen I
mean this is the that that buzz is kind
of under bubbling under uh right now.
But if you listen to what the House
people say publicly, they expect that.
Uh, you know, there's all all kinds of
talk about, you know, how we've
accommodated the House and how we've
been working together and all the rest.
Uh, what that is is a signal that uh you
we're going to end up having to take
whatever the Senate uh uh does and the
president's going to have to come in and
put the hammer down on some people. Hey
Terry, it's got to catch up with you
this Monday morning. Good morning. It's
uh Terry Hayes there of Pangia Policy.
Is it real resistance or theater? Terry
believes it's just theater. just
theater, but potentially there could be
real resistance, I think, with some
members in the House. I understand what
Terry's saying. There is some good mute
music put out there, maybe from the
likes of Congressman Mike Lawler. They
are keeping the salt provisions in, but
then you go to Chip Roy, Congressman
Chip Roy of the House Freedom Caucus.
You go to his Twitter handle over the
weekend. He does not like this Senate
version of the bill. Speaking of
resistance or lack thereof, Lisa, you
talked about the bond market. Yield's
down for three consecutive weeks, down
almost 10 basis points on a 10-year just
last week. People are shrugging off this
idea that somehow this is going to spur
bond vigilantes into action. They're
going to come with pitchforks for
Washington DC and say, "Get your fiscal
budget in order." We're not seeing it
happen. And it raises this question,
why? Is it because there maybe isn't as
much foreign selling? And a whole host
of analysts over the weekend suggested
that's the case. Tanya Bonos this
morning down to to 425. Up next, the
former senior Trump trade adviser Kalian
Shaw as Canada looks to restart trade
talks with the US. Plus, Danny Burgerer
with your morning movers. Renewables in
focus falling on the latest version of
Trump's spending bill. Live from New
York, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
Coming into Monday, record highs on the
S&P 500 through Friday on a two-day
winning streak on the S&P. Closing out
last week for the biggest weekly gain
since midmay. Up another 4/10en of 1% on
the S&P this morning. On the NASDAQ, up
by 0.7. Switch up the board and turn to
the bond market. 2-year, 10year,
30-year. Nothing to worry about in fixed
income at the moment. Apparently, three
consecutive weeks of lower yields on a
2-year and 10 year. The 10-year down by
close to 10 basis points last week. Down
another two this morning going into
payrolls Thursday, a few days away. Your
yield 425. As yields come back down, the
pressure on the US dollar is not going
anywhere. In the FX market, Euro dollar,
check this out. The euro stronger for an
eighth consecutive session. That grind
continues 11723,
the longest daily run going back to July
2023. Want to watch in the FX market.
That's the cross asset picture. Let's
get you some single names. Your morning
movers with Danny Ber. Hey Danny. Hey
John. Clean energy stocks getting
slammed in this morning's trade. the
latest release of the one big beautiful
bill having a quicker thanex expected
roll out phase out of those renewable
tax credits for solar and wind projects.
They're not going to end in 2027. The
expectation is that would have happened
later. So you're looking at names like
Nextera Energy falling 3% AES that's
falling 2.5%. Also in the latest draft
of that Senate version of the bill, you
also saw a quicker roll back of EV
credits or EV relief for those
purchasing it. That's hitting Tesla this
morning. Shares are down more than 1%.
Elon Musk even taking to X over the
weekend, slamming that tax bill.
Finally, rounding things out with a
little bit of sellside action from you.
Jeffre upgrading Disney this morning.
Shares are up 1.9% saying that there is
less of a slowdown likely coming for
their parks division. Cruises also look
strong and they have a really big slate
of entertainment coming over up over the
next 6 months, including Zootopia 2 and
Avatar 3 because nothing is new anymore.
John, of course, that's just the way it
goes, Danny. Thank you. It's in the
movies over the weekend, saw all the
trailers. It's exactly how I felt. Felt
like I've seen that, seen that, seen
that. Haven't seen that, but I felt like
I've seen that. I don't need to see it
anytime soon. And often you actually
have seen it because usually it's a two,
three, four, or five. That is the
iteration of a particular series. Given
all of that a miss on our radar this
morning, one of our top stories,
President Trump's tax bill heading for a
marathon voting session in the Senate.
The majority leader John Thun working to
appease holdouts needing at least five
senators who are currently opposed to
vote in favor. So he can only lose three
and he's pretty much already lost two
with Tom Tim Tillis and Ron Paul.
Obviously JD Vance will have to come in
for one of those votes. So he needs to
get one of these handful of senators
over the finish line. Likely this is
going to come down to the group what
Terry was talking about when those that
looking to scale back how quickly they
are cutting when it comes to Medicaid
cuts. And that might be the reason why
because politically this might be
challenging to Republicans when it comes
to the midterms. And you already look at
some of the research. Pew research is
showing that most Americans actually are
not down with the one big beautiful
bill. Maybe in terms of tax cuts, but
they don't want to see things like
Medicaid or any sort of health care
benefits being taken away. So this is
the reason why we're going to have a
voterama, which is going to be 12 hours
or more. The rabbit hole I went down
this morning was why Vottoama? How did
they name it that? And evidently, as
recently as 1992, they started calling
it a voterama. And in 1996, it was
basically codified by Republican whip
Trent Lot. So, we've been referring to
this thing as a voter, which sounds like
a bad term out of a 1988 sitcom. So, I
was just wondering, and yet here we are.
Can I recommend that you spend that time
next time just sleeping some extra time
in bed? I actually really enjoyed You
just get bored at about 4:30 in the
morning.
I actually was thinking, how did we end
up saying this with a serious face?
Vottoama every single time it comes up
and yet here we are. We'll do it again
all through this week. That's just one
of the deadlines by the way. That's July
4th and taxes. July 9th and trade very
much in focus too with Canada making a
concession to the US in a bid to restart
trade talks, dropping its digital
services tax that would have cost tech
companies billions of dollars. The Prime
Minister Mark Carney and President Trump
agreeing to sign a new deal by July 21.
So two things we learned from this. One,
there is going to be an extension at
least when it comes to Canada and their
trade discussions. When I speak to trade
negotiations on the other side of the
United States, if they are serious in
conversations right now with this
administration, they are being told from
the Treasury Secretary, from Ambassador
Greer that we will give you that
extension. Two, when it comes to just
digital service tax, how much did this
actually help Mark Carney? This was
something from the Justin Trudeau world
and a lot of businesses have been going
up to Mark Carney saying, "Please don't
put this into play." And maybe President
Trump actually helped him here. I
actually think Mark Carney has to be
given a little bit of credit. he has
brought the temperature down in a
significant way. Even when you had the
leaders of the the world come to Canada,
he didn't have them come out with some
sort of joint communicate. Let's not
focus on that. Let's talk about real
stuff that needs to get hashed out and
not sort of raise the temperature on a
specific number of words. You have to
say he's kind of played this in a way
that has made Canada more accessible for
people who might want to vacation there.
The personalities, the substance, the
weaker currency, all of that stuff.
Exactly. Can I fit one final question
in? Deadlines. July 21, July 9th,
China's August. What's the real deadline
for all these countries? I don't think
there is one because the president
continuously also says in two weeks and
two How many times have we heard there's
going to be a trade deal in two weeks? I
feel like I've been hearing that for two
weeks since every two weeks since April
2nd. So, I think it depends for each
country. It's specific. We'll come back
to the trade story in just a moment.
Let's get to the story here in New York
City. President Trump threatening to
withhold federal funding from NYC if
Maril frontr runner Zaram Mandani quote
doesn't behave himself financially. The
comments coming as Mandani says he
doesn't believe the world should have
billionaires. And this raises this issue
of the US federal government versus
local municipalities and their
governments. You have seen this type of
threat raised before. What I find
interesting is there is a split right
now in MAGA world about people who find
this abhorent and people who maybe
aren't so much in that camp. Tucker
Carlson over the weekend coming out and
saying that Zora Mandadi was the only
person in the New York City's mayor
debate to say he wanted to focus on New
York City. All the other candidates said
Israel. I just think it's interesting to
see the split because if you start to
look at some of the rhetoric, it starts
to look very similar on either side when
you go far enough to the fringes. I saw
that clip with Marjorie Taylor Green and
she said, "Yep, he gave the right
answer. He was the only one that said,
"I have no reason to travel anywhere but
to stay right here in New York." We have
seen the president do this before. He
did it with Governor Nuomo. I'm going to
withhold funds if you don't do what I
like to do. If Zora Mandani actually
becomes the mayor of New York, that is
going to be an incredibly tense
relationship between Washington and the
financial capital of the world and could
be very complicating for that Democratic
party going into the midterms next year
and trying to secure what their future
looks like into the next presidential
general. Absolutely. because a lot of
Democrats that are more moderate that
are more I would say centrist of their
party have come out really strong
against Mandani and have actually also
some of them said I'm not ready to give
my backing to this individual. That's
the latest on New York City. The
countdown to that election in full
swing. Let's get back to trade. Global
trade partners looking to strike a deal
before President Trump's self-imposed
deadline on July 9th. The former senior
White House trade adviser Kellyanne Shaw
writing the following. I'm expecting to
see most tariffs land between 10 to 25%.
Kellyanne joins us now for more.
Kellyanne, welcome to the program. What
leads you to that conclusion, Kellyanne.
10 to 25.
Thank you so much for having me and I do
agree with Amarie. I think July 9th is
feeling less like a deadline and more
like a mindset in terms of how I expect
to see some of these relationships roll
out. I think the 10% is the safe zone.
That's where the president has kept us
for the last almost 90 days. And 25% is
a really high tariff. So I expect after
all of these negotiations that the
countries who get the best deal, like
the UK, will end up with a 10% baseline
tariff. And my expectation is that for
everybody else, 25% is probably the
upper range. Plus, we have some of these
sectoral tariffs. And we're getting some
of those indications from administration
officials who are signaling that to the
private sector as well. I like that.
It's a mindset. So, in this negotiation
of mindsets with all these countries,
what is the order, the pecking order of
who gets a deal first?
Well, I I think we're likely to see a
mix of countries. And clearly, the
administration has been targeting our
biggest trading partners, those with
whom we have the largest trade deficit
as the prime targets for the president's
trade policy, because if you get that
right, everything else can flow through
there. But what I expect to see is
actually a mix. I think we'll see some
large trading partners. I'm actually
starting to put the European Union in
that bucket. The president's talked
about India. We could see some Asian
countries as well, Latin American
countries, other European countries like
Switzerland. Maybe we see Brazil,
Argentina, and uh uh countries like
Israel in there. And then the president
is going to assign a tariff rate to
everyone else and give them the
opportunity to come back and to
renegotiate if they want something
lower. So, I think we'll see all of the
above. So, it feels like he'll just be
negotiating for his entire term. Is that
how you take it? Well, if it's anything
like Trump 1.0, then yes. I think this
is a perpetual negotiation that we'll
continue to see unfold. But but here's
what I really think we'll see. That over
the next couple of days, starting with
July 4th and rolling into July 9th,
we'll see a series of deals announced.
And these will effectively be like
agreements in principle over some core
obligations. And then the details of
those deals will need to be further
negotiated. And Secretary Bessant has
talked about Labor Day as a potential
target date for finishing up some of
those negotiations. And I think we'll
see more stability in the market from
there. But this is continually a moving
target. And I think countries who want a
better deal 6 months, 2 years from now,
we'll have the opportunity to get that.
So let me get this straight, Kelly.
We're talking about July 9th soft
deadline for concepts. And then for some
more details, we're talking about Labor
Day. What do companies do with all of
this? I mean, are they paying the deacto
tariffs at any given time? How do they
sort of follow rules that have not yet
been codified?
Yeah, I I think those are really great
questions and I do think that we'll
start to see a lay of the land come July
9th and I think we'll see a greater lay
of the land come this summer, fall and
that's where I really think the private
sector is going to have more certainty
as to what some of these tariff rates
are likely going to be for the long
haul. Um, but I don't think we'll ever
get that certainty certainty because we
also have these sectoral tariffs that
the administration is continuing to roll
out. We've heard that they have six or
seven more investigations in the hopper
of different products and sectors. So, I
think we'll continue to see this
evolving, but I do think we'll get more
certainty through the summer. So, there
have been there's been this theory out
there that we'll see some of the trade
negotiations and the trade uh deals that
we've been discussing trickle into the
economic data and trickle into earnings
as soon as the next few weeks. Do you
think that's feasible given the fact
that companies don't have certainty and
aren't willing to make big moves on
either a supply chain level or even on a
pricing level before they have that
clarity?
Yeah. And I think the other thing that's
in play right now is the one big
beautiful tax bill. And so what the
administration would say of course is
that it's not just our t tariff policy,
our trade policy, but you have to look
at our tax policy, deregulations, energy
diversity, all of these things to get
the full picture as you're taking steps
to invest in the United States and set
up some of those supply chains. Um, but
I think for some of these sectoral
tariffs, those are going to be stickier.
So companies who are in steel, aluminum,
automotive, semiconductors,
pharmaceutical products, I think they'll
see some more certainty sooner. Um, but
I do think for everyone else, if you can
sort of bake in an estimate of a 10 to
25% tariff depending on where you're
importing from, that's probably a good
estimation of where things are going to
land. And that's what I'm telling my
clients. An entire trade conversation,
we haven't talked about China yet.
Kellyanne, just what's the next steps
when it comes to this relationship
between Beijing and Washington following
the Geneva and London talks?
Yeah, I I think things are going very
slowly at the moment. And so right now
we are working on implementing that
original Geneva deal through the London
framework. And so all eyes are focused
on some of these export controls the
Chinese side uh rare earths and rare
earth magnets in particular on the US
side. Some of the counter measures that
were taken the president mentioned
yesterday that the chokeold the US has
is on China's aircraft and aerospace
industry and that they need us for that
the same way we need them for rare earth
magnets. So I I think we need to see a
deescalation with these two sectors
right now in the next few weeks. And at
that point that August 12th deadline was
supposed to be the date where we saw a
broader set of economic commitments
being negotiated between the United
States and China. But I do think the
focus of August 12th is going to be
relatively narrow both on implementation
and maybe seeing phase one roll out.
that this is going to be a difficult
relationship and I think we're going to
see this play out over the next year or
two, not just the next couple of weeks.
Kellyanne, a few more years of this,
can't wait. Kellyanne Shaw, the former
senior Trump trade adviser. I'm not sure
the market can cope with that, which is
why the market's just started to ignore
it all over the past two months. How do
you price and tail risk that every day
seems catastrophic and every day doesn't
materialize anytime soon. It just you
ignore it and at a certain point that's
the only way to stay sane. This is the
biggest wrinkle in communicating policy
at the Federal Reserve at the moment.
The Fed chair gave a semiannual
testimony. He said, "Who's going to pay
the tariffs? Who's going to pay the
tariffs?" Really, what he should be
asking is, "What are the tariffs?"
Shouldn't that be the number one
question right now? And that's the
reason why he said he had to wait until
July 9th to understand the levels. Does
he get those levels on July 9th? And if
it still is an ongoing negotiation, how
much do you end up in a situation where
we don't have any sense of it and we're
just throwing spitballs at the wall like
we've been doing all year. Kellyanne
Shaw was at the table and negotiating
with China when it came to the phase one
trade deal. When she says July 9th is a
mindset, I take her word for it. Did you
used to make them as a kid? Put them in
straws? You know, I was actually
jealous. I was jealous.
Actually, they are kind of disgusting,
but it just took me back. Did you ever
do it? I'm sure I did. I did not like I
do not thought about that for about 30
years. Yeah, people used to do other
things like wet things and throw them at
the ceiling. Talk about that another
time. All right. Futures at the moment
on the S&P markets. What were you doing
last week? Social media stocks. Equity
futures positive by 4/10en of 1% on the
S&P. Nice. On our radar this morning, a
lot on trade, taxes, and policy. In the
news this morning in our Bloomberg
brief, Yahara Ann Arnard has more. Hey,
Yahara. Hi, John. One of Hong Kong's
last remaining pro-democracy parties has
officially disbanded. The leader of the
League of Social Democrats cited immense
political pressure for the decision.
It's the latest opposition party to
cease operating after Beijing imposed a
national security law on Hong Kong in
2020. Meanwhile, here in the US, North
Carolina Senator Tom Tillis won't seek
re-election. This coming after Tillis
voted against advancing Trump's tax and
spending bill. Trump responded on social
media calling Tillis a talker and
complainer, not a doer, and said he was
speaking with several candidates to
launch a Republican primary bid.
And Meta is ramping up hiring for its AI
super intelligence group. The company
signed on four notable AI researchers
from Open AI. Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg
made headlines this month for beginning
to personally recruit AI researchers and
engineers after being frustrated by his
company's shortcomings in the space. I
guess those 100 million pay packages are
working. Dr. Green, John Yahara, thank
you. If you can't buy the companies,
take out the stuff. And frankly, that
seems to be what he's doing. And
remember when we were talking about
social media stocks, just saying in the
news. Exactly. And this is the way
people are spreading political messages,
you know, messages about votamas. An
aggressive push from Mark Zuckerberg.
You're taking that somewhere else. Up
next on a program, a Thursday payrolls
report. What if we're transitioning now
to a point where the labor markets are
becoming a source of disinflationary
pressure? And the reason that could be
is because the stock of unemployed
people continues to grow. Up next on our
program, Adichave of Bank of America.
His number for Thursday morning in the
90s. That conversation up next.
[Music]
Alltime highs into Monday. Equity
futures. The rally continues. This
quarter has been an absolute blur.
Where's it all gone? Equity futures this
morning up by 4/10en of 1% as we close
out Q2 and the month of June. Under
surveillance this morning, a Thursday
payrolls report. What if we're
transitioning now to a point where the
labor markets are becoming a source of
disinflationary pressure? And the reason
that could be is because the stock of
unemployed people continues to grow. The
markets, I think, are still looking for
a a smoking gun. Um, and you know, to
me, that could be a a negative payroll
print at some point over the next few
months. And when that happens, I think
the markets will begin to price in more
rate cuts. Here's the latest this
morning. A shortened but busy week of
economic data ahead, including ADP,
Jolts, and the June jobs report.
Adichave of Bank of America writing the
following. We expect June non-farm
payrolls to come in at 95,000 lower than
the consensus expectations of around
120. Ada joins us now for more. Adicha,
good morning. Good to see you. Good
morning. Thanks for having me. So, we've
got lots of questions. You're looking
for something like 95, but then no rate
cuts for 2025. Correct. Lisa's got the
Fed questions. I'll stick to the data.
95. Is that a bad 95 or just 95 and get
used to it? So, the first thing I'd do
is focus on the unemployment rate. I
think that's more important than
non-farm payrolls because payrolls are
affected by both supply and demand. And
the Fed has been pretty explicit about
this. But with the unemployment rate, we
think it'll land at around 4.3%.
In May, it was 4.24. So that's fine. On
payrolls, we think it's a combination of
some idiosyncratic stuff around the
timing of Memorial Day and how that
affects leisure and hospitality hiring
in May versus June. So basically, we
expect some payback, but also structural
issues, right? So continuing claims were
quite elevated in the survey week for
June. Well, combine those two data
points. Don't they paint a picture of
deterioration in the labor market
softening? Yes. Outright deterioration.
I think we'd worry about that more when
the unemployment rate goes above 4 and a
half. So John and I had the same
question. We read your report. We saw
your call for the Fed no rate cuts. And
we both said square the circle. How can
you possibly have a deteriorating later
backdrop, a deteriorating labor
backdrop, albeit not necessarily weak,
and a Fed that remains in the sidelines
without any real inflation pressure as
we've just seen in core PCE? So that's
that last part is what I would question
that. I think there is some inflation
pressure. We've been stuck at 2.7% for
the last year on core PC inflation. In
May of 2024, the core PC was 2.67%.
Now it's 2.68%.
The excuse last May was that housing
inflation was going to come down and
that was going to bring the core back
towards 2%. Well, that's actually
happened. We've gone from 5 1/2 to 4% on
housing, but everything else has picked
up, particularly goods, right? So, we're
not actually making progress on
inflation even before you see the bulk
of the tariff impact. So, what are you
seeing right now that Mary Dailyaly,
Jerome Powell, and so many others aren't
where they're even signaling that
September is the time that they're going
to cut rates and it is fully priced in
markets? What are you seeing that you
think will surprise them into holding?
So, I think September is live in the
sense that it's an option and and that's
the way they're setting it up because
they're concerned about how the labor
market will evolve over the next 3
months. And indeed, if the labor data
are super weak over the next few months,
if we get to 4 and a.5% on the
unemployment rate, I think it's
completely reasonable for them to cut in
September. The problem is, if we don't,
then you're looking at potentially 3%
core PCE with a still relatively healthy
labor market. And then I think it gets a
lot harder to cut. And when you get into
the fall, you're talking about fiscal
stimulus kicking in. We're getting past
peak tariff uncertainty and the economy
could pick back up again. To John's
point earlier, how important is it for
the Fed to understand not just who's
eating the tariffs, but the tariff
rates? And we might not get that by
September for all these countries.
Presumably, we'll have a lot more
clarity after the 9th of July, but
you're right. I mean, things could still
go back and forth. How are you drawing a
conclusion right here, right now about
who is going to shoulder the tariffs?
We've had two different types of guests
come on this program. I've read from
Goldman Sachs who say it's going to be
the US consumer, the US companies. we've
seen from other companies including
federated and Steve Orth who thinks it's
going to be the exporter. It's going to
come from the international players that
have to absorb it and take it on margin.
Have you seen anything in the data right
now that convinces you one way or the
other? So I would start with the idea
that back in 2017 18 FX actually ate
most of the shock right so the renm
adjusted against the dollar and so it
was neither the exporter nor the
importer nor the consumer that was
paying it. That hasn't happened this
time around. So someone's got to pay it
and it's probably going to be a mix. If
you look at import prices, they do
suggest that it's going the the the US
importer and the consumer will have to
bear a significant burden of the tariff.
This is the ultimate question then. Is
the consumer in a position to bear the
ultimate cost of the tariff? Are they in
a position to go back to their employer
and ask for a wage increase? And that's
where the push back is at the moment.
And we hear it from economist after
economist. The tightness in the labor
market just isn't there. They're not
able to go there and ask for those
higher wages. they won't be able to back
this up and therefore you shouldn't
worry about inflation getting out of
control. Why doesn't that convince you?
Because the saving rate has actually
increased quite significantly. So the
trough of the saving rate back in 2022
was 2%. Now it's almost it's it's 4 and
a.5%. So in theory, if you just take
that literally, that means that we have
room to absorb about a 2 percentage
point inflation shock. Nobody's talking
about that big of an impact to to
consumer spending, right? We're talking
about inflation rising by a few tenths,
maybe several tenths. And I think it's
again in theory at least that could be
eaten by the saving rate. And this is
why the debate continues over the summer
because some people say the savings
rate, you can look at just uh the fact
that a lot of consumers are
underleveraged and they could add some
more with respect to credit card bills.
I just wonder whether it just ends up
being company specific. Nike was able to
pass along more of the prices. General
Mills. Turns out Lucky Charms isn't as
popular for breakfast anymore as it was
when I was a kid. So, it's sort of this
company by company. Who has the pricing
power to actually carry it through? Not
a tariff story though, right? Well, it's
both. The serial story
make America healthy again. Yeah. That's
Yes. But it's also Yeah. I don't know
what exactly it is. My kids don't even
like it. You saying company after
company they're going to take out the
artificial dyes in that movie. Although
I can't imagine skins without artificial
dyes. Like what do they look like? Just
sort of like vague. This is beetroot
extract. You can use beetroot extract.
You don't need to use red 40. I know
what you think. RFK making America
healthy again. Is that what you said?
Well, yeah. I think he wants to be the
chief nutritionist. There you go. We're
seeing that change. Adich, good to see
you. Thanks for dropping by. Not going
to ask you about that. Don't worry. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance is
just around the corner. Live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
I think that there is a structural
decline in the US because there are
genuine questions about the reliability
of the institutions. Base case actually
very in line with what the Fed has said
is a slowdown in growth below potential
but still positive and slightly higher
inflation. There's a little bit of a
almost an overoptimism that rate cuts
are coming imminently the next 6 to9
months. I don't think rates are going to
be dramatically lower. We were
expecting, okay, the noise is going to
quiet out through the summer and now I'm
not so sure. This is Bloomberg
surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
What a rally through Q2. It's the final
trading day of the second quarter. And
so far in Q2, we're higher by 10% on the
S&P 500. Your scores this morning look
like this on the S&P. Equity futures up
again by 4/10en of 1% building on a
2-day winning streak on a benchmark
state side on the NASDAQ 100 higher by
0.6%.
Your week ahead shaping up as follows
full of economic data the big one on
Thursday payrolls Thursday before the
July 4th holiday. And then before we get
to all of that on Tuesday we hear from
Chairman Powell at the CRA forum for the
European Central Bank. And Chairman
Powell is not looking to cut rates
anytime soon. And frankly he's the
difference between the bulls and the
bears right now. A lot of people saying
that if the Fed does cut rates for the
right reason, which is that inflation's
coming down, but the market, the economy
isn't falling off a cliff, you end up
with a rally that's even more
significant than what we've seen, taking
stocks back to an all-time high. If they
stay put like we just heard from Adichi
Bahave, some people think that maybe
some of the froth comes off uh the top
given the fact that valuations will
really get challenged before he sets
policy. He's got to work out what policy
is elsewhere. July 4th for taxes, July
9th for trade, and as we've said
repeatedly already this morning, both
those self-imposed deadlines might
slide. They might slide. And the
president himself has said it might be a
few days late when it comes to the one
big beautiful bill. When it comes to the
trade agreement already, we see from a
statement from Canada that they already
have a new deadline, July 21st. So, it
really depends what country you're
coming from, what deadline you're going
to get when it comes to trade
negotiations. When it comes to the one
big beautiful bill, today's important.
Senate Majority Leader Jonath bringing
everyone back at 9:00. Anyone can have
an amendment to your voterama and
basically this could be hours in the
making and he's really doing all the
dirty work behind the scenes. He has a
number of senators he needs to shore up
basically dealing with three factions.
The fiscal hawks, those that want to see
more benefits for Medicaid and
healthcare benefits and those that are
saying you're going too far on the
renewables. We need to keep them. If
they were able to get this over the
finish line in the Senate and that's
might take some time. Does the House
just capitulate and accept this? That's
a big question. The pressure is coming
from within the Republican party. It's
not coming from the bond market right
now. And Lisa pointed that out in the
last hour. 10ear bond yields at the
moment around 425. And it's not like
this has just happened over a few days.
This is 3 weeks now of lower bond yields
and last week down another 10 basis
points. Yeah, this is right now you're
seeing yields get back down to places
that we haven't seen since February
after the biggest rally in bonds going
back uh a couple of months. There's a
real question here. Have people just
stopped caring? Have people looked at
the dynamics and seen inflation coming
in even with some sort of risk premium?
Or is there just a great degree of
complacency at a time when you have the
committee for responsible federal budget
coming out and saying it's going to
increase the deficit by $3.9 trillion
over the next 10 years. I'm not sure
what to make of this except that maybe
supply isn't what's driving bonds right
now. I think it's fair to say that the
Treasury Secretary, Scott Besson, might
be happy this morning with this outcome.
He's going to join us later on this
morning, 9:40 Eastern time. Look out for
that conversation right here on
Bloomberg TV. A conversation with the
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson at 9:40.
That's coming up later. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Stuart Kaiser
of City with stocks notching a new
record high. Angelo Zeno of CF with
Nvidia approaching a $4 trillion market
cap and Kurt Ryman of UPS with President
Trump's big beautiful bill stuck in
Senate purgatory. We begin this hour
with stocks higher after the S&P 500
posted its first record high since
February. Stuart Kaiser of City writing,
"Valuation, positioning, sentiment, and
risks are very similar to January as
investors grow comfortable with no
risks." Stuart joins us now for more.
St. Good morning. Hi, good morning.
Compare now to back then. Are things
better now than they were back then? H
better. That's a loaded question. I
would say better in the sense that the
risks are known and you know, once the
market kind of knows risk, they can deal
with it. But I would say, you know, the
risk of the economy, the risk from trade
are, I would say, worse than they are in
January to some degree as well. Oh, so I
think you know the headwinds for the
economy are probably a little bit worse
right now and market expectations and
market understanding of those risk
probably better than it was back then.
So you think that right now the market
is fairly pricing some of the risks that
come from a weakening economy and
potentially trade deals that do increase
tariffs between 10 and 25% as Kellyanne
Shaw said. I mean you you'd hope the
market is factoring that sort of level
of tariffs into the into the math. I
think before you just said good news is
good news, right? You said if rates are
lower for the right reasons then the
markets are going to rally. No words in
my mouth, but go for it. Carry on. And
no, look, I I I think the market's
probably fairly discounting what they
think a baseline for the budget is and a
baseline for tariffs are. Are they fully
discounting the unemployment rate, you
know, at 4 4.4% on Thursday, which is
what our economists think? Probably not.
So, I don't think we're probably fully
discounting the downside risk to the
economy at this point. There was a lot
of uncertainty in January. You seen that
same level uncertainty right now, these
July knowns, but still a lot of unknowns
on the table. I mean, look, it's it's if
you go back to January, you're way ahead
of April, right? I mean, back in January
was, you know, Trump hasn't been
inaugurated yet, and, you know, we've
got deepse and and things of that
nature. So, I do think the the risks or
the the uncertainties right now are
pretty similar to where they were in
January. They're nowhere near where they
were in kind of March and April. So,
it's I mean, it's it's been a long year,
I guess. I mean, it's been a long
quarter. It's you know, we had we've had
clients say, "Hey, you know, what
happened in in 2Q?" And I mean, the list
is is pretty long. just back to January
like a full circle because in January we
all were expecting a 10% baseline tariff
and then higher maybe 30 to 60% on
China. Isn't that almost where we're
going to end up with now after we almost
went through this process of I would say
as Trump maybe would say getting it out
of his system when it comes to
liberation day. I think that's that's
exactly right. You're kind of pricing a
base case on tariffs and and things like
that and and on taxes as well. I mean
the markets expected those tax cuts to
get extended for the whole year. What's
different is you spent three months like
beating up the economy. And I think the
question is from here is the economy,
you know, resilient enough to recover
through that or are you in the same
place in January except that you've you
sort of budgeted the economy into into
submission to some degree? That's a huge
question. Is the bad data still ahead of
us? Now you've got to think about things
super tactically going into something
like payrolls on Thursday. Are you
comfortable being long into that event?
H I mean I I think Russer to the
downside for Thursday in particular. I
think it's going to be a low volume
trading day. Our economists are at 85k
payrolls with a 4.4% unemployment rate.
If that number prints, I think we're
lower from an equity perspective. So,
you know, tactically for that day, no, I
wouldn't I wouldn't want to be carrying
a lot of risk into that, especially
ahead of a long weekend and you know,
Trump has a history of kind of messing
up people's weekend. So, you know,
you've got those two things going on.
Um, big picture, yeah, I mean, we're
comfortable being long US equity risk.
We do it through a more high quality
lens just given these uncertainties. So
yeah, very tactically I'd be cautious
around that payroll sprint. Next couple
of weeks probably okay being long
equities in that environment. How scary
is it to be bearish right now? And I say
this, how scary is it to come out with
something that isn't just, you know,
ride the meltup. That is the biggest
risk pain trade. You know, this idea
that bears have gotten blown up time and
time and time again. People who looked
at the headlines and said, "Oo, this
bad. Not so much. Turns out it isn't so
bad." I mean, how much is that scaring
people away from tactically turning
negative? I I think it's a great
question. You've if you were short in
like early April, for instance, I mean,
you just got destroyed on the way up and
and you know, consistently speaking, the
tail risks have been trimmed off and the
worst cases have been walked back. And
if you've been short, that stuff has
really worked against you, right? Like I
think for for a short or a bear to be
happy these days, they really have to be
betting on US economic data weakening or
a significant reescalation in the China
US, you know, trade war situation. So I
think you need Trump to come out and say
they're not negotiating in good faith.
We're going back to 100%. I think you
need something to that degree to turn
tariffs from a buy the dip opportunity
into I need to sell. What about on the
flip side? What do we need to see on the
economic data front that would cause the
bulls to get even more bullish for there
to be a more fully uh broadening out in
the rally that a lot of people have been
waiting for to say, "Okay, now we're
actually seeing something that's
sustainable." I think it's exactly what
you described earlier, which is you get
a couple of rate cuts, not because the
economy is slowing, but because
inflation's coming off and the economy
is kind of moving along in this late
cycle kind of sideways fashion, and then
you're doing a trillion dollars of
buybacks, and you've got systematic
buying, and you've got foreign investors
re-engaging in the US. So, there is a
story there and it's just what you
described. It's the economy kind of
holds in and we get a couple sort of
supportive rate cuts behind that with
Trump promising more next year and and
then the market I think can rally pretty
well into that environment. So it's it's
the economy at this point I think. Could
you just clarify your bullish posture
with a little bit more detail? I assume
it's not just get long mag 7 load up on
big tech. Is it something a little bit
more nuanced? Yeah, I mean I think it's
it's it's quality across the board. So
it's not just tech. We actually like
semiconductors as a quote unquote
catch-up trade. And I know it doesn't
feel like a catch-up trade, but you
know, it is an area that's actually
underperformed in the analog semispace.
So, not just your Nvidas and your
Broadcoms like the other folks. So,
yeah, it's it's kind of quality across
the board. Uh, Mag 7, yeah, Mag 7 falls
into that category. So, it kind of gets
swept up in there. Um, you know, we've
generally liked large cap growth as you
know, for most of the year. We kind of
backed off on that a little bit when
rates started to dislocate to the
upside. So, we're kind of in a higher
quality kind of, you know, rate
insensitive, you know, you know, stock
right now. There was another consensus
sector long coming into 25 and I don't
hear much about it anymore but it was
the banks. Everyone coming into 25.
Everyone sat in your seat. What do you
long? We love the financials. What do
you like? We love the banks. What are
the banks now? Yeah. I mean I we would
probably probably would have fall into
that category ourselves. Um we've
actually seen quite a bit of demand for
for regionals and smaller cap banks for
the last couple weeks. And I think that
is folks that like the banking sector,
think the economy is going to kind of
pick up a little bit and are looking for
this lagard as as we get into to
all-time highs. Look, you've got
earnings coming up. You had the SLR. Um,
you know, you're going to get
potentially carcin
the second biggest buyback sector in the
market as well. So, you have a you have
a flows dynamic, you have a regulatory
dynamic, you have growth holding in, you
potentially get a steepening yield
curve. you could quickly talk yourself
into this being an environment that's
very good for banks. I think the
question is within banks, what do you
own? Are you hiding in those big
highquality large cap folks? Are you
willing to kind of go down cap spectrum,
play more of an M&A theme, play more of
a small cap catch-up theme? I think we'd
probably at this point still be
comfortable in that larger cap higher
quality. Um, but you know, it would be
dishonest for me to say that clients are
not trying to engage in those smaller
cap stocks right now. To that exact
point, I was actually looking at a
series of statistics that Dan Curtis of
Bloomberg puts out uh on a daily basis
and he was talking about how the volume
of IPOs that have started trading so far
this year is actually the greatest going
back to 2021 2022. Are we going to see
an ongoing momentum in that space that a
lot of people have now written off as
being a lot more subdued than initially
thought at the outset of 2025? I mean, I
certainly hope so. I mean, I I think the
M&A cycle was was just a huge part of
the thesis coming into this year that
you have an administration that's maybe
a little more open-minded about M&A and
things of that nature and and we we've
seen it I would put you know M&A I would
put that in what I would call
institutional risk sentiment theme like
you know most retail investors are not
trying to identify M&A targets right
this is more of an institutional hedge
fund trade and when you see like our M&A
targets basket has just been a rocket
ship to the upside because you know I
think institutional risk sentiment has
improved so much that people were
willing to put money to work there.
Whether it happens, I don't know. I'm
sure you're going to hear in two weeks
from most of the investment banks that
the pipeline looks great, etc., etc.
What's that? Oh, yeah. Yes. For a couple
years, right? I mean, so look, we would
we we want that trade to work because
that is a an institutional positive risk
sentiment, markets moving higher type
theme. Um, you know, will we see it? I
don't know. I mean, we've had a couple
very successful IPOs. Uh, but you need
to kind of stack those on top of each
other. I think the seauite's just been
aggressively whipsawed over the past 6
months or so. We came into 25 and you
had this really sort of proactive,
confident posture in places like the
World Economic Forum in Davos,
Switzerland. Fast forward a few months,
April, it was sit on your hands. Sit on
your hands and wait. Honestly, we should
do a basket for the anti- Davos
sentiment and have people trade it in in
in January and see how well it does
every single year because pretty much
American exceptionalism. Yeah, Europe
needs to get off its can. Let's go. This
whole mood, I mean, every single year
without exception and this year was no
different. Confidence of America bankers
like right up here to start 25. And I
guess alltime highs in the equity market
might justify that to some extent
because here we are. Equities at alltime
highs this Monday morning. Stuart Kaiser
City is going to be sticking with us.
Futures up again by 4/10en of 1% on the
S&P with an update on stories elsewhere
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Yahara Arnard for
more. Hey yara. Hi John. Senate Majority
Leader John Thoon is rushing to meet
President Trump's July 4th deadline to
pass his massive tax and spending bill.
But Thon is facing opposition from eight
Republican senators and must find a
compromise. Some are pushing for deeper
spending cuts while others want more
funding for health benefits and
renewable energy subsidies. Meanwhile,
Soron Mani, the presumptive Democratic
nominee for New York City mayor, says
billionaires shouldn't exist. In an
interview yesterday, Mom Donnie said,
"It is so much money in a moment of such
inequality. President Trump threatened
to pull federal funding from New York
City if Mum Donnie becomes mayor and
according to him doesn't do the right
thing." And President Trump says he
found a buyer for the US operations of
Tik Tok, but won't provide details for,
you guessed it, two weeks. Trump said
it's a group of very wealthy people, but
the deal will need China's approval.
Trump says he expects President Xiinping
to agree to it. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John, talk about purgatory. This
company's just sort of in this rolling
90-day extension. Yeah. And now forever,
it seems. Yeah. It's sort of is it going
to be killed? Is it going to die in the
United States? Well, two weeks. Just
wait two weeks and that's sort of where
we are again. Perennial extension for
Tik Tok. But the fact of the matter is
you got to have China on board to be
willing to sell this. And that that's
that's really the problem. I don't think
having the buyers that want to buy this
is the issue. Yahara, thank you. More
from you, Har in about 30 minutes or so.
Up next on the program, the struggle to
strike a trade deal. What I want to do
is and what I will do just sometime
prior to the 9th is we'll send a letter
to all these countries. We'll send a
letter and we'll say to shop in the
United States and you'll pay a 25%
tariff and we wish you a lot of luck and
that's the end of the trade deal. Thank
you for your attention to this matter. I
love that each letter signed president
of the United States of America. Up next
on our program, Tyler Kendall is going
to join us next to break down the
situation going into two key deadlines
July 4th, July 9th for taxes and for
trade. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Looking to close out a quarter with
equities at all-time highs, up another
4/10en of 1% on the S&P 500. On the
quarter so far, higher by something like
10%. The biggest quarterly gain for the
S&P 500 potentially going back more than
a year. For the FX market, totally
different story. Euro dollar has had an
8% move over the quarter. Lisa, the
worst quarter for the dollar against the
euro back to December 22. And I'm old
enough to remember when people would
point to this and say this was the end
of American exceptionalism. The new
trend has been this is the beginning of
FX hedging desks across the United
States because ultimately this is all of
the institutional investors from
overseas saying, "Oh, the dollar might
be a risk. We better get on that. It
isn't necessarily coming from outright
selling." Jim Zouter of Apollo on the
program just last week saying, "Look to
the earnings from the financials later
on the quarter to speak to that theme."
And that's ultimately what we saw with a
number of studies over the weekend in
particular from Morgan Stanley that
looked at some of the tick data, the
Treasury data that came out uh last week
and said you're not actually seeing
outright selling of anything. You are
seeing net buying of US stocks and US
bonds. Euro dollar 11725
out of Savylvanas this morning. It's the
struggle to strike a trade deal. What I
want to do is and what I will do just
sometime prior to the 9th is we'll send
a letter to all these countries
There's 200 countries. You can't talk to
all of them. We'll send a letter and
we'll say we uh we consider it a great
honor and this is what you'll have to do
to shop in the United. We're like a
department store to shop in the United
States and you'll pay a 25% tariff and
we wish you a lot of luck and that's the
end of the trade deal. It's the latest
this morning. Trade partners lining up
to strike a deal before President
Trump's July 9th tariff deadline. The
White House sank agreements with as many
as a dozen countries are expected by
next Tuesday. Joining us now to discuss
is Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Tyler, not
all countries will be treated quite the
same. So, who's at the front of the line
going into next week? Yeah. Hey, John.
Well, a person familiar tells Bloomberg
News that the US actually is nearing
some sort of agreement. We would expect
these to be frameworks, not fully
fleshed out deals, with a few different
economies. That includes Taiwan and
Indonesia. They also say that packs are
possible before July 9th with Vietnam
and South Korea. Now, that's not
necessarily surprising since we know
that this administration has long
prioritized those economies that are
geographically close to China. Now,
we'll have to see actually how this does
come into effect as the administration
has said on one hand, we could expect a
handful of deals before July 9th, but
then as you heard President Trump there,
he has long toyed with this idea of
setting an effective tariff rate and
letter set to our trading partners. and
perhaps July 9th really could serve as
the the deadline for him to actually do
so. It was interesting to hear the
former Trump trade official Kellyanne
Shaw say earlier on this program that
she is expecting perpetual negotiations
under this administration. And I will
point out that it's been really
fascinating to see how sector specific
tariffs have also made their way into
these conversations in such a meaningful
way considering that our our original
understanding was that these levies
enacted under section 232 on the grounds
of national security concerns were not
going to be up for negotiation. But then
John, you had President Trump over the
weekend threatening to keep auto tariffs
on Japan at 25% amid a roadblock in
those talks, giving us some insight into
how this administration is playing with
a lot of different factors here as they
try to work towards some sort of
progress on trade deals. Tyler Kendall
down in Washington DC. Tyler, thank you.
Stuart Kaiser City still back with us.
Stu, we've had a few people say that the
outcome of July 4th and that deadline
might inform what happens on July 9th.
Do you see it that way? Not necessarily.
I think I feel like those are kind of
independent, you know, from one another.
The, you know, they what you get on July
4th may reference tariff revenues as a
way to sort of justify a larger deficit.
But I don't know. I feel like these are
you're negotiating with July 4th is
within the GOP negotiation. Um, you
know, this other is negotiation with
other countries. I think they're
relatively separate, though I do think,
frankly, expectations are pretty high
for both at this point. I think markets
are assuming a budget deal will get
passed with a pretty high likelihood. I
think they're assuming all the tax cuts
will be extended. And on the tariffs, I
think they're assuming that you'll have
the vast majority of these deadlines
either an agreement reached or rolled
out because of good faith negotiations.
And you'll probably get one or two
people that one or two countries that
are used as an example to kind of prove
that Trump is is still serious about
that. But I think both of those outcomes
are probably net positive for equity
markets. Expectations are high that it
gets done, but are they high enough that
it gets done on July 4th and July 9th?
Yeah, on July I think most people are
assuming July July 4th to your point may
get pushed a bit, but it's not going to
get pushed into August, right? This is
going to be something where they have a
framework of the deal and they're and
they're sort of moving, you know, moving
chairs around on the Titanic as you
would say. When you talk about deals
getting done, do you mean every single
country but China? It's a great question
because you could argue that a lot of
people assumed it would be negotiate
with our trading allies first and then
everybody negotiates with China as a
block. He's kind of thrown that upside
down, right? He's kind of done an
endound and negotiated with China
initially, which you might argue
undercuts the leverage of countries like
India and Europe um in their
negotiations with the US. So, I think
initially the assumption was allies
first and then China, but it it's a
little hard to, you know, figure it out
right now because that order has kind of
been like thrown up in the air a little
bit. Tyler brought up a good point.
Sectoral tariffs. We haven't seen them
yet and these will have what many
analysts say and lawyers say a lot
better and solid legal footing. Are you
concerned what that could mean from an
equity perspective? Yeah, definitely.
You know, depending depending what
sectors you're targeting. Obviously,
semiconductor tariffs are going to be an
issue. you know, potentially stuff in
the healthcare sector I think think
could be a big a big issue as well. So
yes, I yes, but right these get rumored,
the markets move, and then they get kind
of rolled back. So yes, we're definitely
concerned about it. Not necessarily
because they're more legally defensible
because I don't think most investors
have any idea what the what the legal
grounds for a lot of this stuff are
anyway. But yeah, I think to your point,
the sector, the good part about the
sectoral tariffs though is it's much
easier to trade because you can trade
the sector in those stocks directly.
these big broad-based acrosstheboard
tariffs. It's it's it's basically just a
beta one sell markets. It's not, you
know, it's not as nuanced. It's not as
specific and targeted. So, I actually
would prefer to have to trade sectoral
tariffs than than bigger broader base.
Are we understanding the margin
compression that comes with tariffs that
can't be fully passed along in terms of
the price increases to consumers? Uh,
potentially, but the dollar's weaker, so
those earnings are going to repatriate
at a higher rate. So, we're all we're
all good. Look, I I I don't think he's
we we really know what's going to happen
with with margins on a go forward basis.
You know, if you Nike Nike's call last
week, it actually sounded like they were
going to basically eat margin a little
bit or or or maybe they were going to
try to pass on cost. It was a little
hard to determine based on their
forecast which way they were going to
go. I think a lot of these these
companies don't know themselves because
they don't know what the tariff is going
to be on v Vietnam, visa v Taiwan, visa
v Korea. So, you know, your supply chain
is also kind of in flux, I think, for a
lot of these companies. So, I don't
think there's a clear understanding yet
of what the impact is going to be on
margins, which is why 2Q earnings should
be so important, right? These companies
were given a pass in one Q. Will they be
given a pass again if they don't provide
that level of detail? If you're long
stocks, can we just finish with this
question? What is the best outcome on
July 9th? Extended pretend or 10% and
move on? Extended pretend or 10% and
move on? What's the best outcome? I
mean, if if the move on was for sure,
then you'd want the the 10 percent and
move on, right? But you could get 10%
and move on, except we're going to come
back to it in a couple weeks. And I
think that that would be the bigger
risk. Um I think what's what markets are
probably gired up for at this point is I
don't know 70 to 80% of these countries
either a framework is in place,
negotiations are progressing well, we're
going to push it out. These other two
are, you know, those are the bad apples.
We'll have to deal with those later. So
in that sense I think the more likely
outcome is is that if you could tell us
for sure 10% across the board 30 to 40%
on China and we're done. Uh that that is
the best outcome but I think it's
probably the less likely of the two.
It's a small detail buried in the
headlines of Q2. But if you go back to
April 2nd initially the market thought
it was 10% and done and we started to
rally and then the table got held up in
the Rose Garden. Remember with all the
big numbers you were there. All these
massive numbers in this market went
south. the initial story. I believe in
the Wall Street Journal, everything 10%
and it's fine. And then people started
saying like, "That's not 10%. That's
30ome." Handing out the handouts and I
was like, "Whoa, this isn't 10%. Oh my
god, Europe, Switzerland. John, go tweet
that right now." Equities right now,
futures positive 0.5%. Up next on the
program, Angelo Zeno of CFR on Nvidia.
Danny Burger on HP.
[Music]
The moves through Q2 phenomenal equities
right now positive by 0.5% on the S&P
child's play 10% higher on the quarter
off the lows up by 23.89%.
That's the rally off the low on the S&P
500 off the low of April 8th. On the
NASDAQ 100, that rally off the lows of
the quarter is more than 30%. NASDAQ 100
futures this morning positive by 0.65
with two hours until the opening bell.
Let's get you some morning moves and
cross over to Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
Hey John. A little bit of deal news for
you. HBE has been pursuing this takeover
of Juniper Network. It had faced a
lawsuit by the DOJ. As of the close on
Friday, they have settled that lawsuit
clearing the way for this takeover to
happen. HPE just needs to sell off a few
of its assets. So those shares for HP up
10 and a half. Juniper Networks those
shares up 8.4%. 4%. Also, some breaking
news in the last hour. Madna
successfully seeing one of its trials
for an mRNA flu vaccine. That means that
would be able to offer a combo vaccine
of both COVID and flu. Now, because the
uptake of co vaccines has been less in
recent years than flu, it also means
that they would in general sell more
COVID vaccines. So, those shares of
Madna up 5.4%.
Finally, rounding things off this
morning with just some of the banks some
outperformance this morning. Wells,
Goldman, Bank of America up as much as
2.8%. 8% in the case of Goldman Sachs.
No surprise, but they pass their stress
test. We learned that Friday after the
close in general. The thought is that
that helps pave the way for more
dividends, more buybacks. So, the banks
rallying this morning, John. Danny,
thank you. More on the banks at about 45
minutes time. More from Danny as well in
the next hour on our radar this morning.
Senate Majority Leader John Thoon is
rushing to meet President Trump's July
4th deadline to pass the tax and
spending bill. Thun will have to appease
eight GOP holdouts who still have
concerns. The numbers are tight. He
basically already lost two senators when
you look at Senator Tillis and you look
at Ron Paul. JD Vance is going to have
to come in at least for his support. So
he can only lose one more and he's
dealing with different groups of
factions. We've been talking about this
since the onset of the bill. It's a
problem in the House. Now it's a problem
in the Senate. Say you decide that
you're going to be a little bit more
friendlier when it comes to say the
renewable caucus or those that care
about Medicaid benefits. Well, what's
going to happen to those fiscal hawks
that are saying we are spending too much
and even if the Senate is able to do
this? Then the House has to deal with it
and there are going to be some problems
with the House. Just take a look at Chip
Royy's Twitter handle throughout the
entire weekend and you can see the
Freedom Caucus is not happy what's going
on in the upper chamber. You asked
earlier, is it theater or is it actually
a fissure in the Republican party and I
don't know that there is such a
distinction between the two because each
person wants to get something. You
talked about eight members of Senate.
Well, half of them want uh more cuts to
Medicaid and half of them want fewer
cuts to Medicaid. Everybody wants some
sort of reconciliation to their personal
need. You just have to wonder whether
markets are fully appreciating what's
going to end up being in here and what
kind of offsets are going to be there.
This ultimately will be the debate once
the market gets its hands on. Well, TIS
isn't running again. Exactly. And good
morning, Mr. Senator, because I know you
watch the program. He's not running
again and he might burn the whole place
down on the way out. So, basically, now
that he has been freed almost of saying
I am not running again, he is giving
some fiery speeches and this could be
just the beginning for him. And
potentially, and the Wall Street Journal
editorial board talks about this this
morning, potentially what Trump did is
kind of broke up the Senate in this way
and opened up a seat very early on for
the Democrats to really start looking at
when it comes to North Carolina. Let's
talk about the substance. And another
unhappy person, Elon Musk, the Tesla CEO
and ex-first buddy, slamming the
Senate's version of Trump's bill, saying
cuts to EV and other clean energy
credits are quote incredibly
destructive. Mus the bill will destroy
millions of jobs. And this comes uh for
a personal reason. Obviously, his
company is one of the beneficiaries of
some of these tax credits. It also
points to another fissure among
Republicans, Tom Tillis. You mentioned
him before. He also would like to see
some of these green energy uh tax cuts
or tax subsidies put in there simply
because they have actually bolstered
some of the red states in terms of
manufacturing and in terms of
production. Elon Musk is not the only
one. You have a bunch of unions coming
out representing construction workers.
one saying last night, "This is
equivalent of terminating more than
1,000 Keystone XL pipeline projects."
You have the US Chamber of Commerce
coming out and saying, "This is a strong
progrowth bill, but there's always a
but. Taxing energy production is never
good policy, whether oil and gas or in
this case renewables. Electricity demand
is set to be enormous growth and this
tax will increase prices. It should be
removed." What I'm confused about is how
the administration is saying we're going
to go after renewables and tax this this
excise tax, etc. At the same time, we
are waiting for Trump to sign an
executive order to talk about the
insatiable energy that is going to be
needed for AI demand. So, how do you
really claim you're for both? It's very
confusing. Some of the push back there
for the tax bill on monetary policy, we
have had even more push back than that,
particularly from the president.
President Trump saying he has three
names in mind for his Fed share pick.
Trump was asked specifically about the
former Fed Governor Kevin Walsh, but
said the following. He said, quote, "I
don't know that it's going to be him,
but he wouldn't be doing what Pal is
doing." Well, Kevin Worsh is the person
who everyone points to as saying,
"Really, he's not exactly dovish. Why
would you want him in it?" This just
goes to build on the idea of what the
timeline would be to put in a potential
candidate to be the next Fed chair who
could act as a shadow shadow Fed chair.
Scott Besson on Friday was talking about
this and he said there are two Fed seats
that come up uh next year. You've got in
January Adriana Cougler and then you
have later on in May you have Fed chair
Jay Powell. Ostensibly in January,
President Trump could put somebody in
Adriana Kougler's seat who would then
serve as Fed chair when J. Powell would
end his term in May, which means that it
could be the October or November or even
September time frame. The shadow chair
might be on the inside. Exactly. Which
is sort of interesting. Fun and games.
Exactly. And lots of disscent. Also, we
need to know though, is J. Pal going to
keep his seat? Right. He will not be
chairman, but he can stay on the board
and he might just want to lurk. We'll
hear from the Treasury Secretary later
on this morning about lurking on the
FOMC and what he thinks of that. I think
the Treasury Secretary's basically
acknowledged that the Fed chair could
sit there and keep his governor seat.
Yeah. And that ultimately go for it. I
think it ends in 2028. I believe so. And
that would be it would be he hasn't
confirmed though whether he wants to do
that. I guess we'll have to see. He says
his head is fair squarely focused on
what's in front of him. Of course.
Secretary Besson 9:40 Eastern time on
Bloomberg TV. Look out for a
conversation on that and a whole lot
more. Let's turn back to tech. Chip
stocks up nearly 30% in the second
quarter led by Broadcom, ARM and
microchip technology. The rally set to
continue. Nvidia surpassing Microsoft on
its way to a fresh $4 trillion market
cap. Joining us now is Mandep Singh of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Mandep, good
morning. Morning. Deep Seek, it's all
over. It's terrible. Everything's going
to blow up. And here we are several
months later. What changed? Well, what
changed is there are new use cases that
have emerged and coding assistant is a
great example of a market that wasn't
there uh especially you know to the
extent that companies like cursor and
now Google launching their own coding
assistant that market could be $50
billion plus that market is all driven
by generative AI so people talk about
search getting disrupted there are other
pockets within software that are getting
disrupted by generative AI and that's
why that reasoning aspect of, you know,
what generative AI is doing with regards
to your LLM being able to run any sort
of browser session, any sort of code at
runtime. That's huge and that's what's
driving the compute right now. This is
important and it's fundamental and it
comes at a time where we're talking
about new record highs for the S&P on
the heels of the likes of Nvidia and
Microsoft up 45 and 32% respectively
just in the past quarter. I'm just
wondering from your perspective whether
this wasn't known and whether this is a
new development enough to generate the
same kind of return on investment, the
same kind of cash flow that would
justify this type of revaluation. Yeah.
I mean what people underestimated was
that there is ROI in terms of the
compute being spent and right now you
are starting to see that ROI. The other
is competition for the likes of Nvidia
was the hyperscalers your Microsoft your
Meta. Well, guess what? Their chip
efforts have taken uh back in terms of,
you know, their ability to make a chip
that's comparable to Nvidia. And that's
why a company like Nvidia and Broadcom
are getting bit up because the
hyperscaler chip efforts are just not
materializing the way everyone expected.
The rally off the low for Nvidia, 67%
off the lows of early April. You can't
bet against this trend. And that's what
people keep learning. And it's so hard
for people who want to be bearish and
say, "Oh, it's a bubble, but it's not
because guess what? They just came out
with this new thing." And it just really
underscores there going to be winners
and losers from the AI trend, but you
can't write off some of the winners just
yet. And that I think is what we've
seen. To build on the conversation,
Angela Zeno of CFR joins us now for
more. Angela, welcome to the program,
sir. Why do you leave Q2 with more
confidence for this name and not less?
Yeah, so thanks for having me. I I think
a lot of it has to do with, you know,
what Mandep just said, but you kind of
go through Q1 earning season. A lot of
these companies, you know, obviously re
reiterated their capex spending plans,
right? Um, you kind of go through here
over the last couple of months, we've
gotten some really great uh data points
in terms of these reasoning models just
kind of starting to gain momentum. I
think Alphabet just last month at their
developers conference kind of talked
about how much more compute we're using
with these more advanced reasoning
models. I think you know April a year
ago monthly tokens process was about 9.7
trillion. It's about up about 50fold um
a year later on the monthly run rate. So
um we're getting a lot more compute
being uh leveraged here. Um and that's
kind of driving significant demand not
only from these hyperscalers but we're
now actually seeing real use cases or
real um signs that the the uh spending
is really broadening out right not only
you know from these these big four but
we're talking about the core weaves the
um Oracle just had an unbelievable um
you know uh earning season where you
know they're essentially projecting um a
doubling in terms of their bookings over
the next year. So we're seeing some real
kind of momentum here on the compute
side of things and that is going to
continue to drive the demand um for
Nvidia as well as other um AI oriented
chip names. Angelo, if we just totally
moved on from DeepSeek, is that now not
a story or is that still something to
use an Marie's word lurking out there to
really uh potentially threaten some of
this spend?
I I think you know in many respects
deepseek has almost become a stimulant
uh for you know a lot of these AI
semi-names in the sense that um it's
creating kind of you know a lot more of
these kind of smaller language models
kind of um you know essentially kind of
leveraging off of these larger models
and um you're finding a lot more use
cases and applications for for these
smaller language models. So that's you
know in many respects driving more and
more demand out there in use cases for
these AI agents and more compute demand.
So in some cases you know in in some odd
way we're actually seeing significantly
higher demand in a post deepseek
environment. Um you know whether or not
you know it's it's come and gone and
we're not going to get these
efficiencies I think remains to be seen.
I think the the demand for compute is
just so strong at this point in time
because of these greater inference use
cases that um I think we're going to
look past this deep seat moment you know
years down the road. Angela, what
happens when we get the sectoral tariffs
looking at semiconductors?
I think that's a great question. I think
that's kind of the big fear out there. I
think if there's a a bare case that
that's what it is. um you know the more
these stocks kind of go up um you know
the greater the risk of a pullback you
know once we see and we do expect you
know some sort of permanent tax and our
view right now is about a 25% tariff um
you know once this kind of gets uh
enacted we'll see you know when this
happens um to what extent it happens but
um there's really two areas or pockets
of the hardware supply chain that we're
looking closely at the first is the AI
server environment right I think every
percentage increase in tariffs leads to
about a 6% increase um in terms of the
cost of an AI server and the other
aspect is um what the impact is going to
be for the Apple supply chain um and
what Apple does on that side of things
how they um you know whether or not they
pressure some of their um you know
suppliers out there because that's going
to have an impact as well. So um you
know I think right now the the streets
almost kind of dismissing the 232
semiconductor investigation. Remains to
be seen exactly how all this plays out.
But in the same respect right um you
know a lot of these companies are
generating essentially or essentially
zeroing out revenue in China which could
could potentially come back um for some
of these uh companies. So um they're
going to be a lot of moving parts here
but right now I mean maybe to your point
there is a risk out there and that is uh
tied to the tariffs. To put this all
together, Angelo, is there a new reality
when it comes to the Magnificent 7 that
looks less cohesive than it did say two
years ago where some of the Magnificent
7 names don't seem like they are on this
freight train upward in the same kind of
way? I'm thinking, for example, of
consumer and tariff exposed companies uh
like Apple, like Tesla.
I that's a great question and I think
right now that the the street is trying
to figure it out. I think maybe to your
point Apple is definitely being left
behind and um you know partly at their
own fault right I mean they've
essentially fallen behind on the AI side
of things they promised the streets
something about a year ago um in terms
of the you know the Siri integration
across the app store they haven't been
able to deliver right um and they
realize that we do think they are going
to be able to figure this out we do
think Apple's going to be more of a 2026
story but again if this ends up taking
longer than you know some investors out
there anticipate like us. Um, this is a
company that could potentially be left
behind for a little while. Um, Tesla,
you know, again, name that I personally
don't cover, but again, um, I think that
the street is trying to sniff some of
this stuff out. And, um, right now it
does look like the winners and the easy
stories are Nvidia, Microsoft, and Meta
among the the Mag 7. Angelo, thanks for
your input this morning. Appreciate it.
Angelo Xeno there of CFRA on tech. Just
a final note there on Apple. You'll see
all these vicious snapbacks, just
V-shaped recoveries on the charts of
many tech names. You don't see that in
the same way for Apple. There's a
secular decline in terms of the refresh
cycle for uh iPhones. But then you also
have some of the questions of just AI
adoption, whether they're going quickly
enough at the same time of their China
business and manufacturing. It's a lot
of hair on a name at the same time that
you got a lot less hair on a lot some of
the these other names. Stock is down 20%
so far year to date for Apple. Shocking
stuff. down 20%, down 19.7 to be
precise. That's the latest on tech.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara. Hey,
Yahara. Hi, John. The Senate is poised
to approve a provision as part of the
tax and spending bill preventing some
states from regulating AI for the next 5
years. According to Republicans, states
will be barred from regulating AI if
they want access to $500 million in new
federal funding for a broadband program.
Meanwhile, starting today, Costco's
executive members can now shop earlier
than other members. The wholesale club
announcing it will start opening at 9:00
a.m. for its top tier shoppers. For all
other members, clubs will be open at
10:00 a.m. weekdays and Sundays and 9:30
a.m. on Saturdays. The new schedule
mirrors one long offered by its rival,
Sam's Club. And Apple's F1, the movie
topped the weekend box office. The film
starring Brad Pitt took in $55.6 million
in US and Canadian theaters. F1, which
cost over $200 million to make, is seen
as a test of Apple's strategy to release
its films in theaters before they appear
on the Apple TV Plus streaming service.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John Yara,
thank you. Eh,
John, you know, I got some thoughts.
Okay, you don't like it. You think it's
just not? I think it's good for the
sport. Just elements of that movie kind
of annoyed me. And it's the audio. It's
a very specific thing. Whenever they
were racing, they were using like the
kind of noise you'd hear if you were at
the stadium or at the racetrack and you
were hearing the commentary over a
speaker instead of hearing the
commentary over say just your natural TV
audio and it just seemed to really bug
me and it went on for 3 hours. Can I
make a recommendation? Sure. Instead of
movies, TV series, they're really good.
Streaming series. I watch TV series as
well. I'm not allowed to go to the to
the movies. You're allowed to go to the
movies, but I'm just saying that that
streaming series are the new movies in
my opinion. Stick is not a movie, but
it's a great series. You watch Stick? I
haven't watched Stick Department Q. Have
you watched that? I haven't watched
that. Really good. You guys have too
much time in your hand. I'll do stick.
You do that and then we'll we'll swap.
We'll compare. All right. Compare notes.
Up next on the program, the president's
tax bill facing push back.
Can you identify anything that you could
actually cut out so that you could have
Ron Johnson and the other senators who
are upset about the price feel better
about it? We're cutting 1.7
Let's see. We're cutting Yeah. 1.7
trillion. We can grow our country so
much more than that. That conversation
up next with Kurt Ryman of UBS live from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[Music]
Equity futures positive this morning. Up
again after a two-day winning streak
through Friday and after closing on
Friday at record highs on the S&P for
the first time going back to February up
another 0.7 on the NASDAQ on the Russell
small caps up nicely too by 0.55. under
Savylvanis this morning. The president's
tax bill facing some push back. Problem
is if we're two days late or five days
late, everybody says, "Oh, he had a
tremendous value." Whatever it is, as
long as we have it, it's very important.
Can you identify anything that you could
actually cut out so that you could have
Ron Johnson and the other senators who
are upset about the price feel better
about it? We're cutting 1.7.
Let's see. We're cutting Yeah. 1.7
trillion. We can grow our country so
much more than that. Here's the latest
this morning. A new estimate from the
Congressional Budget Office saying the
Senate's bill now stuck in limbo would
add nearly $3.3 trillion to US deficits
over a decade. Joining us now to discuss
is Kurt Ryman of UBS. Kurt, good
morning. Good morning. Good to see you,
sir. Some push back from Republican
senators and some journalists. Very
little push back from this bond market.
What gives? Yeah, push back has been the
story all throughout. When we thought
about the sec this second administration
for President Trump uh all all the way
back to even November, one of the things
that we pointed out was that you can be
assured of was that under United
government, which is what we have, is
you're going to see higher deficits over
the the next, you know, several years
that's come through. But the push back
has also been pretty consistent at every
stage, whether it was getting this bill
through the House or getting it through
the Senate, uh, which is still, you
know, we're waiting for that. Um, we're
going to hear this sort of, uh,
constant, um, you know, push back, but
yet the, uh, the bill is likely to
advance because it does a few things.
Uh, it it push it gets the debt limit
solved at least for another couple of
years. uh and it lifts or at least keeps
the tax rates where they are uh for you
know for most Americans and I think
that's an important piece but it does do
a couple of other things which is it
takes the deficits uh and makes them
sustained at a high level for a fairly
long period of time. Um and even the
tariff income uh isn't coming
necessarily fully to the rescue. So hold
on a second. Sorry to cut in here but to
John's point, why isn't the bond market
pushing back in the form of higher
yields? Yeah, I mean this could happen
and I think this is something that we
have to think about. Uh lately over the,
you know, the past couple of months, the
bond market's been doing very well.
We've been living through these periodic
episodes where the 10-year note yield
moves up to four and 3/4 or maybe even
could push closer to 5%. We've been
concerned about that at four and a
quarter uh on the 10-year, this is about
as good as it gets in our view. So you
think this is the floor and that we that
yields are going to go higher from here?
They could over the course of the year
if growth slows as we expect as a result
of the tariffs, yields could move a bit
lower. But our view is that it's going
to be higher first. And from that point
of view, it's sort of like a seessaw.
You know, you think about the the way
that the bond market's been moving. Our
view is that over the course of this
year, we get Fed rate cuts, and that
should be beneficial. But then there are
other concerns about the tariffs leading
to higher inflation or deficit concerns
or maybe even geopolitical risks if oil
prices were to again move higher. All of
these factors are keeping us from moving
out the yield curve uh and taking on
additional interest rate risk. And let's
face it, why do we have to? We're not
forced to. If you can get 90% of the
10-year yield in a five-year uh then
take that and that that should be
sufficient. So, so hug the intermediate
part of the curve and at around 4% uh
that's you know that that's a that's a
good result. But to Lisa's point, if we
are right now in terms of a floor in the
10-year yield, how high are you talking
about it can go? What's the ceiling? I
would be looking for a range between
four and a quarter, four and three/4ers
over the course of this year, 5%. Uh I
wouldn't rule it out. Uh you know, I I
would not rule it out. uh the bond
market is going to be taking cues from a
a lot of different forces over the
course of the next uh several months and
and it's this this back end that we're
seeing with with rates having now
compressed uh that does look
susceptible. So again, we're we're
keeping in the the the belly of the
curve and and that to us is is providing
decent value. This sounds like a period
that we saw play out last year where the
Fed could be reducing interest rates but
mortgage rates go up. Are we going to
see a repeat? I think that's what's that
we have that's what we have to be
careful of. I don't think there's going
to be any Fed chair uh that over the
next four years that's going to it's not
going to that's going to get a free pass
on policy. Uh there's going to be again,
you know, you think about push back that
senators and how and and members of the
House have against the bill. Uh the
president is going to keep the pressure
on the Fed chair no matter what. I think
coming into the back end of this year
though, he'll start to get some of the
policies that he's hoping for. But, you
know, it's in a form of a quarter point
cut and gradually. So, over the course
of the next year, we might see rates
another full percentage point lower. Um,
but the Fed has to be careful. And I
think when when you're when you're
administration, you also have to be
careful that when you move rates lower,
you also have to be cognizant of the
possibility that long-end rates go
higher and mortgage rates go higher. And
these are also concerns of the
administration. Um, you'll have Treasury
Secretary Besson on later. I think this
is a great question uh to to ask him.
Yep. At 9:40 Eastern time, Kurt,
appreciate the promo and your
appearance. Thank you, sir. Kurt Ramen
there of UBS. This was the nightmare of
last year. Down 100 basis points at the
front end. Yields climbed at the long
end. This could potentially be the
cautionary tale for why the Fed doesn't
want to cut rates too aggressively later
this year. One market pretty well
behaved at the moment at least. Up next
on the program, Eric Freriedman of US
Bank Asset Management, David George of
Bed. will catch up with the former
Kansas City Fed President Esther George
and Michael Kushma of Morgan Stanley.
The third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
just around the corner
when we've had big movements and trade
deals that it does create a lot of
volatility. It does create a lot of
noise quite quickly. We're looking to
come to agreements. We're expecting an
average effective tariff rate of around
14 to 15% by year end. I don't think
these tariff deals are going to be done
that quickly. I do think the tariff
uncertainty will continue. We're all
looking at sort of the black box right
now, waiting as this information comes
out. This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
The third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
starts right now with equity futures
positive once again, up by 0.4% off the
back of a two-day winning streak on the
S&P 500 and another all-time high at the
close just last week. This morning we
had some weight to the rally up nicely
on the S&P and on the NASDAQ and on the
quarter up 10% for Q2 on the S&P 500. If
you looked at that there's nothing to
worry about. If you looked at this there
might be something to worry about in the
FX market. Euro dollar Euro dollar on an
8day run 11725 an 8day run of dollar
weakness. And on the quarter a move of
8% for the single currency. That is a
lot of dollar weakness. We've been
asking where are the bond vigilantes?
Why aren't yields higher as we look at
this one big beautiful bill and a
potential almost $4 trillion addition to
the deficit? We were just talking to
Kurt Ryman. He said maybe the vigilantes
have moved. Maybe they moved from the
bond market to the currency market and
they're selling the dollar. And that is
the way you're going to see an
expression of concern around the fiscal
outlook for the United States as well as
a host of other issues. Whether this is
coming from outright selling or whether
this is hedging, a lot of people will be
discussing. But this really is the
takeaway, the big change uh over the
past 3 months. The pressure valve for
all the tension over the last quarter or
so going into the next week as we start
to think about July, we are hitting the
ground running. We've got payrolls
Thursday, a self-imposed deadline for
taxes on Friday, and then into next
week, another self-imposed deadline for
tariffs and trade. The operative term to
this deadline is self-imposed, which
makes you think potentially they can
slip and it won't be the biggest deal in
the world for the Republican party.
Right now the Senate is dealing with
this and in hours time they're going to
start this voterama. This can go on for
hours. We are talking about the early
hours of the morning potentially we can
see this continue. Even if Senator
Majority Leader John Thoon is able to
get the ducks in a row, he could only
lose three votes right now and he pretty
much has already lost two senators and
he has a number of different factions
he's dealing with. Then the house has to
deal with this and the CBO scoring comes
out and says the tax and spending
measure would add nearly 3.3 trillion to
US deficits. If you look at the freedom
caucus Twitter handle over the weekend,
they are not prepared to vote for this
bill. We've already given a history of
the voterama and of exactly why this
word is
amend you get an amendment. was well
it's this going to be this long thing
but the word voterama was fashioned or
as early as 1992 and then it developed
into 1996 where it was really codified
by a Republican senator. I think it's
getting a little dated. It sounds like
it was from the 1980s. I'm going to
propose votalooa. Nice. Is that going to
be the change? Yeah. From voterama to
votala because I think that that's a
more modern take. You should write a
letter to the Senate majority leader.
I'm sure that he will take that up right
now. Senator Thun will make that debate
that particular uh that's the value ad
so far this morning. Think if you're
looking for anything else, got nothing
for you. Coming up this hour, Eric
Freriedman of US Bank asset management
with stocks back at all-time highs.
David George of bed after downgrading JP
Morgan to a rare sale rating. Look out
for that later. And the former Kansas
City Fed President Esther George saying
it's too soon to call for a rate cut. We
begin this hour with stocks rising after
the S&P 500 posted its first record high
since February. Eric Freriedman of US
Bank Asset Management writing, "In this
environment, we want to be either
overweight or neutral risk. The time for
being cautious is behind us. Eric joins
us now for more. Eric, welcome to the
program. Sir, if the time for being
cautious is behind us, how confident are
you that bad data still isn't still in
front of us? We think there's probably a
bit of a back and forth, Jonathan, on
the data front. You know, the the
employment market, your team has done a
great job of covering it, is probably,
at least in our estimation, the shakiest
parts of the current setup, meaning
there's a lot of underemployment. We
think that businesses at large are still
very cautious in terms of making what
we're going to call more exploratory
capex decisions. Most of the capex
decisions we see from companies is
really more maintenance in nature. So I
think in this environment what may go
wrong is a softening weakening labor
picture. Um certainly we could have
trade talks that go the wrong way but in
general we think that momentum is still
positive and and again we would be on
the side of being either neutral or
overweight risk assets here. That's
certainly the risk going into something
like payrolls Thursday. The median
estimate so far for people just tuning
in 113 at the moment. The previous
number for the month of May was 139.
Eric, you keep saying overweight or
neutral. Can you pick one for us and
just explain how you've used this recent
bout of strength over the past few
months? Yeah, we've really been using
it, Jonathan, as an opportunity to
lighten up, get back towards more of a
neutral positioning. I think if
anything, momentum probably continues.
So what we be doing uh for clients is if
they're normally let's call it a 60%
equity investor if they want to add
another 5 10% we just hedge it. And I I
think that one of the things that we're
really paying attention to and again
you've done a nice job covering it this
morning with currencies is looking at
correlations. One of the things that we
always think about is of course what are
stocks and bonds doing together. The
reality is that stocks and bonds have
actually been moving in the same
direction which for us is not a good
thing. So what we think is the most
prudent thing to do for investors is to
still have that glass half full
viewpoint but actually use more outright
hedges as opposed to being you know more
reliant on traditional asset allocation
to do its thing. So we think again uh
you know using some opportunities to to
feed the ducks as a technical phrase in
the industry uh and then certainly bank
some gains concurrently. uh we think the
time to be overly cautious as I said
earlier is is certainly uh you know a
response to maybe a deterioration in the
labor market or if trade talks go the
wrong way which we don't think they
ultimately will. So you're renting
pessimism and holding on to optimism. Is
that a good way of putting it? Uh it is
Lisa. I think that's a you know in sort
of a rent control world if you will. Uh
you know our viewpoint is that you know
this is a an interesting time of
transition on the policy front. You
certainly hear a lot about the Fed, but
we do think this is going to really boil
down to what companies do with budgets.
And one of the things we're really using
as a gauge as we head into earnings
season is just how confident and how
thorough is is is forward guidance.
That's something that actually has been
a real lack, if you will, in terms of
the bottom-up analysis that we do is
just how skittish uh you know, companies
are about being definitive with their
plan. So we do think that with the
passage of the bill which which again we
we'll see if that July 4th deadline
sticks but let's call it by mid July
late July you know that will give
opportunities we think for companies to
think about employment plans and again
we think the bias is still for
reinvestments in companies certainly
share buybacks will likely continue but
those are two things that still give us
some optimism for the path ahead. Do you
see uh certain stocks that are better to
be pessimistic on than others? I mean,
one major theme of the past month or
three months really has been Nvidia and
Microsoft skyrocketing everyone else
upward and the actual leadership has
been relatively narrow. We're starting
to see it broaden out with this hope
that we will get maybe better than
expected data or if we don't that the
Fed's going to cut rates. Where are you
most pessimistic? Is it on the big tech
names and valuations or is it just the
economic deterioration that you do
expect possibly to come to the four with
respect to the labor market or other
indicators? Yeah, to your point, Lee,
it's been a very nuanced move in terms
of leadership in equities. And the part
that we'd be most concerned about would
be those retailers that are really
focused on, let's call it, middle inome
consumers. That's the vulnerable set we
think if we see companies continue to
delay employment uh in in terms of wage
growth. You did a nice job covering that
earlier this morning. But then also if
we see you know credit just continue to
let's call it weaken at the margin. We
don't think there's going to be a
massive credit shock if you will but we
are seeing delinquencies pick up not
just in areas like auto loans. That's
been certainly the case for some time,
but certainly the midpoint of credit as
well as what we're seeing in the CNBS
market. So, real estate continues to
show some weakness as well. So, where
we'd be most concerned would be those
retailers that are really focused on uh
middle inome earners. That's probably
the swing factor for us. Uh we like
discount retailers. We like uh you know
some of the more luxury brands, if you
will, on valuation. Those are spots that
we like, but that middle income consumer
we think may be a bit vulnerable here.
Well, you rate the consumers five out of
10. How do you get to that rating and do
you think in the future it's going to
move up or do we have a chance to
potentially see the the consumer drop?
Yeah, and Marie, it's a great point. So,
you know, we we look at as you as you
mentioned consumers, we score them
between a zero being weakest, 10 being
strongest. And right now, they've gone
from about a 78 in 2022 down to a five
uh presently. And so we think there will
be some stability but likely an upturn
particularly for uh we think lower inome
consumers as well as for higher inome
consumers. What we don't have enough
data on yet in terms of having a really
strong convicted view is what happens to
middle inome consumers that we think
will be a function of what happens with
house prices also as I mentioned earlier
the quality of the employment gains that
we think is an area that is still to be
determined but there's lots of things to
do while we wait for more clarity. So we
do think there will likely be some
stability with an upturn not necessarily
so necessarily so rate sensitive but
really a function of the capex cycle
doesn't return. We think it ultimately
will and we think that uh you know
betting against that if you will is not
what we doing with client money right
now. I know you're glass half full in
terms of client portfolios but you sound
a little glass half empty when it comes
to the consumer.
Yeah, I think that you know if you look
at at the different components of the
consumer spectrum and Marie I think in
general uh you know the industry doesn't
do a great job of bifurcating out just
the subcohort. So we're actually very
very positive on higher income
consumers. We think that lower income
consumers have actually withtood a lot
of body blows of late. Uh what we're
still again we are glass half full with
middle- inome consumers but we're still
concerned about how that may swing in
the event that there is a delay if you
will in that capex cycle or if there's a
delay in uh in tariff reconciliation. So
that's the part that again there's lots
of things to do while we wait but I
still think in general the the upturn is
there on the consumer side at large
there's just a lot of variation within
the subcontext of consumers as one big
cohort. Eric it's been too long. It's
good to hear from you once again. Let's
do it again soon. Eric Freriedman there
of US Bank Asset Management. You said it
so many times this quarter. The market
is not the economy. The market is not
the economy. And ultimately, you see a
number of companies that are benefiting
from uh techn technological changes that
are really underscoring how that much
that's the case. It sounds like he's a
quarter glass full when it comes to the
lower income cohort. He's 3/4 half full
when it comes to the higher income. and
then he's feeding the ducks in the
middle. We should acknowledge though
there is still some tension here. He
thinks that the time for being cautious
is behind us. Certainly been conditioned
and reinforced by what we've seen in the
market. But ultimately you have to be
wary that the worst of the data might be
in front of us and that's the issue I
think a lot of people have got including
Stuart Kaiser City are looking for some
terrible numbers on Thursday and from a
tactical perspective he was making the
point that's not something he's
comfortable being long into. This is the
reason why derivatives traders right now
are going to have a really interesting
time. And I'm looking at that kind of
revenue coming out of the banks because
ultimately nobody wants to be wholesale
committed to any particular trade. They
want to do it in a renting it type of
way rather than buying or selling it
wholesale. They don't want to commit at
a time where they just don't know. And
probably we're going to muddle through
and we'll be in the exact same place in
just three months time. Love your
framing. Rent the pessimism and own the
optimism or just embody the pessimism.
Embody the pessimism. But, you know, buy
the buy the optimism because, you know,
you need to actually live and make some
money. Yeah. Equity futures right now in
the S&P positive by 4/10en of 1%. That
was all too honest. Let's give you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's
Yahihara. Hey yhara. Hi, John. Senate
Majority Leader John Thoon is rushing to
meet President Trump's July 4th deadline
to pass his massive tax and spending
bill. But Thoon is facing opposition
from eight Republican senators and must
find a compromise. Some are pushing for
deeper spending cuts, while others want
more funding for health benefits and
renewable energy subsidies. Meanwhile,
Canada is making a move to try to
jumpstart trade talks with the US. It's
withdrawing its digital services tax on
technology companies including Meta
Platforms and Alphabet. This comes after
President Donald Trump said on Friday he
was ending all trade talks with Canada
in retaliation for that digital tax. And
in sports, the Yankees took two of three
from the Athletics over the weekend,
winning Sunday's game 12-5 with Aaron
Judge hitting two home runs. They now
hold a game and a half lead in the
division over Tampa Bay. The Yankees are
looking ahead to a subway series
starting Friday with the Mets who've won
just three of their last 16 games.
Sorry, Lisa. That's Bloomberg, John.
Yeah, thank you. Did you put that in
there? I did because I was at the game
and Judge Why did you pay her to frame
it that way? I I didn't write the
script. I just said we should really put
the Yankee game in there because I was
there yesterday. Judge's two home runs
were amazing. And there's an amazing
stat to this. 44th career multi home run
game was yesterday. He is now sitting
third for this achievement behind Babe
Ruth and Mickey Mantel. It's pretty
incredible. And the Mets,
you know, Mets are messy. The season is
young. Things could happen. And you
know, it's been a bad streak. We can
recover. Honestly, how much you know,
I'm going to buy cookies for everybody.
The script is pretty brutal. Okay, that
was pretty brutal. That was that was
really, you know, as they head into the
subway series with the mask on. Every
time I travel, I will say this. I do
bring the team back goods from wherever
I am. Oh, so you bribe them. All right.
Up next on a program, the morning calls.
Plus, David George of bed after
downgrading JP Morgan. JP Morgan on
valuation concerns. That stock is up
almost 20% for 2025. That conversation
up next. Live from New York City this
morning. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
The opening about 1 hour and 13 minutes
away. Equity futures rallying going into
it up 4/10en of 1% on the S&P up by6 on
the NASDAQ 100. That's some of the price
action. Let's get you a few of the
morning calls. Here's three. The first
one from Stifel upgrading Oracle to buy
seeing sustainable acceleration in the
company's cloud business. That stock is
up by more than 2%. Your second call
from Guggenheim raising its price target
on ARM to 187 citing higher revenue
growth despite weak corporate IT demand.
That name is up by.9%. And your third
and final call from Jeffre upgrading
Disney to buy seeing more park upside in
the second half of the year. The stock
is up by more than 1% in the pre-market.
Let's turn to the big banks. Optimism
over the outlook for the sector driving
JP Morgan to fresh record highs last
week. But not everyone is buying into
the rally. David George of bear
downgrading the company to a rare
underperform rating. Writing, we realize
we are fighting the tape here. We simply
think that expectations are super high.
David joins us now for more. David,
thanks for making time for us this
morning. This isn't something you see
too often from the street or from you
personally. So, let's start from the
top. Why the downgrade?
Good morning, John. Yeah, it it it's
very simple. JP Morgan and I think it's
important um for viewers and and and you
all to understand and appreciate the
fact that that in in addition to
following companies, we also follow
stocks. And uh the stocks, as you were
saying in your last segment, the market
is not the economy. Uh and stocks are
not always companies. And uh from our
perspective, the risk around some of the
big bank names has gotten a little more
elevated given the big moves. As you
mentioned, JP Morgan, we're urging
clients to sell stock here. Uh given the
fact that the shares are at uh the the
record valuation trades at close to
three times tangible book value, um
almost 10 times pre-provision earnings.
They typically trade at just 10 times
earnings. Forget about pre-provision
earnings. And we're simply of the view
that uh returns in this stock from here
are simply not going to be as good as
they've been in the past. And the risk
in in stocks in general, but banks in
particular, particularly the big ones,
are a little higher today uh than they
were in April when they're probably 20
to 25% lower. David, is your big thesis
just simply a valuation thing and that
the bank sector is not necessarily going
to be the growth engine that it was say
20 years ago with all of the
deregulation and uh what have you that's
going to be coming from Washington DC?
Well, I don't think uh Lisa that banks
are a growth sector and and that's okay.
Uh from from my standpoint, we we think
about banks as a riskreward sector. Um,
and this is a group that's going to grow
pre-provision earnings at around 6%, six
to eight% per year. You're going to get
a little bit of capital management in
the form of dividends and buybacks. And
that's going to be a pretty respectable
return uh in a high single to low
double-digit area. What's important
given the fact that this is a relatively
low growth sector is the price that you
pay. Um, and returns we think are very
highly correlated to the price that you
pay. And from our perspective, but
buying the stock here uh just doesn't
make a whole lot of sense to us given uh
given what you're paying for it here. I
framed it like that, David, because
there is a thesis out there that banks
have not been a growth sector for the
past 20 years, in particular on the
heels of DoddFrank and as an increasing
amount of business went to private asset
managers. There is a theory out there
that some of the deregulation and the
changes are going to allow the biggest
banks to compete more aggressively with
private asset managers and potentially
take more risk also get bigger returns
to make them a growth sector once again.
Do you think that there is any validity
in that type of thesis?
Um I think there is a lot of positives
around deregulation. I think this time
every summer for the last seven, eight
years, Lisa, we we we we as investors
and analysts have we're always bracing
ourselves expecting regulators to find
reasons why big banks need more capital.
And today, we think we've finally kind
of crossed the Rubicon of uh being at a
level where banks have adequate capital
levels. And that we think I think
positions the sector to be in a position
to return more capital to shareholders
in the form of buybacks and dividends.
And I think for the biggest banks, what
you'll see in addition to maybe a little
more capital return is adding a little
bit more um dare I say a touch more
leverage to be able to accommodate
trading. So we would expect trading
assets to bulk up a little bit. And that
really is simply a function of not to
add risk per se, but just to be in a
position to accommodate clients uh more
freely. um for as it relates to things
like private credit um that's not
something that that we would expect uh
credit risk to meaningfully change. This
is really more a function of more
capital. Um and I think it's better for
sentiment. I think more a more friendly
deregulatory environment uh is also
conducive to bank M&A. That's something
that we think is going to happen is why
we're a little more constructive on the
smaller regional banks or the super
regional banks. But that's kind of our
view on on deregulation. But when it
comes to something we actually just saw
last week, when it comes to the SLR,
isn't that that impact going to be for
the bigger banks, not not the regional
smaller banks, it is um and and that
again going back to kind of my initial
comments is is priced for that. JP
Morgan is at three times tangible book
and there are several regional banks
that are trading at half of that price.
Now JP Morgan is a fantastic company uh
but that that SLR reform among others we
think has been largely played out uh and
there there's been a lot of buying of
the rumor and wor seller of the news.
Amory David appreciate the update from
you sir David George there of bed with a
rare downgrade for the likes of JP
Morgan just in terms of earnings and the
dates you can expect to get these
reports earnings from JP Morgan two
weeks tomorrow so just around a corner
July 15th and just an update on that
stock record high an almost $800 billion
market cap over at JP Morgan now and I
think that David George's point is it's
a great company there are a lot of
potential tailwinds but the valuation
has gotten to a level that's extreme
given the fact that this isn't probably
going to be the growth engine that it
was during the heyday of the 1980s. That
kind of banking boom that you could have
seen under the superleveraged model that
you saw at a lot of these banks. It
really raises the question where the bar
is going to be for some of the earnings
and whether people have too much baked
into some of these and too little baked
into some of the smaller banks
especially with mergers and acquisitions
as well as some of the loosening when it
comes to leverage requirements. Could
you pump this quarter? Stuart Kaiser
City was talking about that. last
quarter you could sit there and say we
don't know what the policies are going
to be. Are we going to know what the
policies are going to be in in two weeks
and a day? You know, we won't know what
the policies are going to be. They will
know what the pipeline looks like and
they always say the pipeline looks very
robust, but we did hear at recent
meetings they aren't expecting the same
kind of M&A activity and the IPO
activity that they were at the outset of
the year. They have ratcheted that back.
We can understand that. We can
understand just how much the derivatives
trading has increased particularly on
the FX uh wings. and we can understand
what the risk appetite is and I think
that that will be a really key
indicator. They can't just punt
completely. Well, the thing is is they
might be talking about what the earnings
are and the outlook and uncertainty in
Washington at a time when the
administration is trying to announce
deals. I mean, July 9th, no one thinks
we're going to get these deals in place.
This is going to be a story for the
entire summer. So, we have a little bit
of wiggle room to uh to punt. Do you
remember being on trillion dollar watch
for tech names? Do you remember that?
Doesn't feel like that long ago. We're
almost on a trillion dollar watch for
for single bank names. Compare that to
say Barclays. I think Barclays the
market cap over in the UK is something
like 50 sterling. Something like 50
billion sterling. And here we've got JP
Morgan close to 800. It's really smart
that you talked about tech companies.
Now we're talking about $4 trillion tech
companies when it comes to Nvidia
because at what point do the biggest
banks have an advantage technologically
to really capitalize on how much
efficiency they can really generate as
well as nuance when it comes to trading
advice etc. And you have to start
looking at that type of change to really
ju uh juice valuations also because
think about if they could do the same
amount of work. Yeah. With so many fewer
employees. Well, how much would that
return on investment be? Each additional
dollar of revenue is going to be less
and less labor intensive. It's Brian
Moahan of Bank of America that got us
onto that a few years ago, wasn't it?
Yeah. And there's dead on. Yeah. And
there's a feeling it's not going to lead
to layoffs right now, but it's not going
to lead to hiring. And you're certainly
seeing that with college graduates big
time. It's a big week for jobs data.
Payrolls is just around the corner. Up
next on the program, the former Kansas
City Fed President Esther George saying
it's too soon to call for a rate cut.
Plus, Danny Burgerer with your morning
movers and a deal in the home
improvement space. That's next. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Wrapping up the first half of 2025. One
day away. Almost there. Q2 felt like a
year, never mind a quarter. Equity
futures at the moment positive by 0.4%
on the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.6 with your
single names this morning. Your morning
movers with 60 minutes from the opening
bell. Here's Danny Ber. Hey Danny. Hey
John. Kicking it off with a little bit
of deal news announced moments ago that
one of the subsidiaries of Home Depot
will be buying GMS. GMS is a distributor
of various building products. It's a way
really for Home Depot to try to tap more
in to that professional contractor
network. The deal values GMS at a nearly
13% premium. So you can see the pop in
shares there up about 11 and a3%. The
total deal ticket about 4.3 billion. Now
elsewhere to the downside this morning a
lot of the clean energy names really
getting hit in today's trade. Next era
one of the biggest losers down 5.8% 8%
AES Enface all of them hurt after the
latest version of the one big beautiful
bill had a quicker phase out of tax
credits for clean energy products that
will phase out in 2017. The expectation
was it would take longer for that. It
also included a quicker phase out in
September of EV credits of EV tax breaks
for purchasers. So that hurting Tesla
shares. It's off some of the lows of
this morning but down nearly 1%. Elon
Musk also taking 2x to slam the one big
beautiful build. John Danny, appreciate
it. That push back coming from Elon
Musk, coming from Republican senators,
and as we've repeated throughout this
morning, it's not coming from an
important place. It's not coming from
the bond market over the last month. We
haven't really seen yields rise in
tandem with the expectation of the
deficit increasing in the same people as
some people were uh arguing earlier this
year. There is however that constant
weakening in the dollar and at some
point people are going to look to the
bond vigilantes turning into FX
vigilantes and that's I guess what we're
seeing. bond yours this morning down by
another two basis points 425 on a
10-year maturity as we look ahead to a
busy week of economic data really climax
with payrolls on Thursday payrolls
Thursday of course before the long
weekend here states side Mike McKe has
more for us good morning Mike good
morning John well it is going to be a
very busy week the first week of the
month always is but this month it is
more crowded because we've got the
holiday at the end of the week I'm going
to divide the week up into two uh first
we get Monday Tuesday Wednesday which
have some major indicators in them. We
get the ISM manufacturing and jolts
report tomorrow and ADP jobs on
Wednesday and all of those will drive
some market volatility. And then it's
Thursday, that's the big day. Everybody
has to come in early. June jobs, May
trade, jobless claims, ISM services, and
durable goods. There's going to be a lot
to talk about there. Obviously, the
question with jobs is are we slowing
down and is that going to precedent some
sort of move in the bond market uh with
uh rates falling if people are worried
about the economy slowing down. We don't
get a lot of Fed speak to talk about
this just a little bit. Today we have uh
Raphael Bastik and Austin Goulsby.
Tomorrow is going to be very
interesting. It is the European Central
Bank's version of Jackson Hole CRA and
they have a single panel including J
Pal, Christine Lagard, Kazu Oa and
Andrew Bailey. Uh whether they will talk
about their own individual banks and
their plans is uh not clear, but there
is that risk. You got to pay attention.
Thursday, Raphael Bastik is back. I
wouldn't ordinarily include it, but he's
the only one speaking after the jobs
report, so he will probably have more to
say. And the interesting thing about all
of this is guys, we could see in a
normal month that this kind of data
would drive trading for a while, but the
uh unfortunately for for the markets, uh
the president's reciprocal tariffs come
back next week, so there may be a short
half-life for all this stuff. MK, thank
you, sir. Two important deadlines. Of
course, after payrolls, we've got taxes
on July 4th, South and Post, of course.
Then July 9th, we've got the trade
story, 8:32 or 8:31. The rush to the
beach. When does it start? One minute
after payroll is two minutes five. It
depends what the number is. It depends
if it's a really low number
significant. I thought we've moved on
from that. The push back from work from
home or work from the beach or week from
but it's a special week. CRA Portugal
which looks beautiful. I love the
difference between Europeans versus the
US. In Europe it's like you know this
lovely kind of cultivated experience and
in the US it's go hang with the bears.
It's sort of very rugged out west. It
just sort of reminds me of the divide,
which I'll be given a miss later this
summer. I think you're going, right? I
am going. I I will dawn my bear bells.
I'm actually very curious to see the
wildlife and also the wildlife
discussions or and the bears, however
you want to frame it. All right, let's
move on. Former Kansas City Fed
President Esther George expecting the
Fed to stay on hold, writing the
following, although inflation is not
accelerating, it remains sticky and
appropriately ties the Fed's hands on
further rate adjustments. Esther joins
us now for more. and Esther, for someone
who used to lead the Jackson Hole
Symposium, I apologize for Lisa. Just
ignore everything Lisa just said. I love
it. I love the forum and I love seeing
you over there. Okay. Can I just say I'm
the one person who No, I'm not going to
apologize because I'm just going to say
I love it. I love the experience. I love
the land. I'm a big proponent of staying
longer so that I can go tour around and
take hikes. Esther is convinced. Yes,
I'm I Thank you, Esther. Let's start
with that quote. It's an important one.
Do you believe the labor market is
strong enough to wait to see what
happens with inflation?
Well, we're going to find out um
obviously with this week's report how
the labor market is fairing. We have
seen the labor market first kind of come
into better balance, if you will. The
number of job openings uh has has come
down. We do hear anecdotally that
businesses are hanging on to people in
some cases. We'll see whether they're
shedding people, what the labor force
looks like itself with all of the the
policy changes that have been going on
there. So, I think there's a lot to
watch for in this particular report uh
that could begin to give us a sense of
how the labor market's doing. You know,
Esther, just to build on the Jackson
Hole Symposium this year, it's talking
about the changing nature of the labor
market and how difficult it is to really
measure it. To pair that with the number
that we get on Thursday, there's this
belief that it's going to be lower than
many people have become accustomed to,
but that still is healthy. How do we
gauge a market and its health that is so
in flux both from the policy perspective
and the technological perspective?
Yeah, it's especially hard, Lisa,
because I think we have come off a
period that was um I'm going to call it
unusual to have an unemployment rate in
the neighborhood of three and a half%.
And trying to diagnose what are the
characteristics that are shaping that
labor market is essential to how the Fed
really calibrates its inies.
You think about both sides of our
calculation here.
that we have seen uh the bottom line
number around who's in the workforce. We
have seen the hiring numbers and trying
to really assess that in a time of great
uncertainty is one of the Fed's biggest
challenges. There's a big debate right
now on Wall Street in the push pull of
is this market albeit not strong not
overly weak just weakening whether it's
still healthy enough or whether it
potentially is showing real cracks like
Neil Da has pointed out of a Renaissance
macro especially given the fact that the
hiring rate is so low and people are
staying on the unemployment roles for
longer. Do you have a a take for that?
Do you think that there should be more
emphasis placed in one thesis than the
other?
So, I don't think you can you can wait
one or the other. We know that the
dynamics in our economy today are
pushing in both directions. We've seen
an economy that's beginning to slow.
It's being hit by policy changes that um
businesses are trying to digest here.
And so, I think you really have to not
lock into a particular narrative here,
but be watching how those dynamics are
unfolding. Remember today the economy is
still in forward motion. It is still uh
operating in a way that we see growth.
Obviously that can change uh with any
particular uh data point or news
announcement that we see. But I think
the fundamentals here suggest that we
shouldn't read too much into any
particular narrative at this stage. If
April 2nd hadn't happened, I'd love to
explore this with you. If it hadn't
happened, given the downside surprises
we've had from core CPI over the last, I
think, four months and the uplift we've
seen in continuing claims, which on the
margin is slightly concerning, would you
have voted for a rate cut based on that
alone?
You know, Jonathan, I don't think so.
And here's why. I view price stability
as a prerequisite for sustained growth
for a healthy labor market uh in the
long run, which is what the Fed's
mandate really is, is looking to the
long run. And so I think when you see
fiscal policy on the path that it's been
on, um it would be by itself, I think,
reason to be cautious right now in an
environment where the Fed has not yet
hit its inflation target. So, I don't
want to take anything away from the fact
that we have made progress, but I would
also want to be careful in that
riskmanagement scenario that you're not
putting too much promise yet on a a
state of inflation that has yet to be
achieved. Speaking of risk management,
if we get an announcement from the
president in October, even early as
September, of who the next Fed chair is
going to be, who his pick is, will that
blur the lines of the Fed, its
independence, and and who's really
leading the institution?
Well, I don't think so. As long as the
current Fed chair is in his seat, he's
been very clear and I think he has every
incentive to be focused on policies that
achieve the Fed's mandate. Does it
complicate communication? Does it create
a lot of noise? Of course, it could. But
I think any Fed chair is going to
understand that their obligation to
meeting their congressionally assigned
mandate is really the priority. And in
the end, you're doing that on behalf of
the American public. You're not serving
just one part uh of the government.
Esther, always appreciate your take on
things. A clinic as always. Esther
George there, the former Kansas City Fed
president with her views on what this
Fed should and shouldn't be doing right
now. Might take away from that
conversation. Mission is not complete.
Yeah, I thought that your question was
right on. The idea of take away the
tariff debate, do you still end up in
the same place in terms of a rate cut?
and she said, "Yes, I do simply because
we are not necessarily fully at that 2%
target and that is the ultimate mandate
of the Federal Reserve." We talked about
this just last week. By the time you get
to SE September for the big deal that
we're all trying to make of the Fed
share race and it's important, I think
we'll all acknowledge that, but by the
time you get to September, they might be
doing what this president wants anyway.
So, by the time we get to September,
there might be no drama involved at all.
we're completely on the same page. When
people pound the table and say the Fed
needs to be cutting and you ask them,
"Well, is September early enough?"
They're like, "Yeah, sure." And they're
basically saying they're probably gonna
cut in September. We can have backto
back back truth social posts with the
president announces a new Fed chair, Jay
Powell cuts, and the president is
praising Jay Powell. And then there's
the question of his chairmanship is up
2026, but his term as a governor is up
January 2028. Does he stay on and lurk?
That's what I want to know. Depends who
the pick is. Depends who the pick is.
And it depends how early they announce
the pick. There's a lot still to figure
out. You might get some answers to some
of this, you might not, but we'll ask
the question anyway. Later on this
morning, 9:40 Eastern time on Bloomberg
television. We'll be sitting down here
at Bloomberg TV with the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson. Our lead
financial correspondent Shaly Basset
will be conducting that interview in
about an hour from now. Equity futures
on the S&P positive by a third of 1%
with an update on stories elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yhira. Hey
yra. Hi John. Nintendo has pulled its
products from Amazon's US site following
a disagreement over unauthorized sales.
That means Amazon missed out on the
recent launch of the Japanese company's
Switch, too. Nintendo made the move
after noticing that third-party
merchants were offering games for sale
in the US at prices that undercut its
advertised rates. Meanwhile, Meta is
ramping up hiring for its AI super
intelligence group. The company signed
on four notable researchers from OpenAI.
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg made headlines
this month for beginning to personally
recruit AI researchers and engineers
after being frustrated by his company's
shortcomings in the space. And Tesla CEO
Elon Musk is slamming the Senate's
latest version of President Trump's tax
cut bill. In a post on X, he said cuts
to EV and other clean energy credits are
quote incredibly destructive. And the
bill will destroy millions of jobs. The
Senate tax bill would bring a quicker
end to the $7,500
consumer tax credit for EVs. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John Yahara, thank you.
Thanks for this morning. Up next on the
program, we'll set you up for the day
and the week ahead. A shortened trading
week, but it's a busy one. We'll get the
thoughts of Michael Kushner of Morgan
Stanley as well as the bond market
awaits the payrolls report. Live from
New York, this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
The opening about 43 minutes away.
Equities at the moment positive by a
third of 1%. Likewise on the NASDAQ, a
lift to this market up by 0.5. What a
run it's been. And what a run this week
will be as well. This week is absolutely
stacked. Check out the trading diary. It
looks like this. Today at 2:30 Eastern
time, President Trump signing executive
orders. Tomorrow, Jolts job openings and
ISM manufacturing. Plus this Fed Chair
J. Powell and the ECB President
Christine Lagard both speaking at the
ECB forum in Cra Portugal. Then we get
more data on Wednesday with the ADP
employment report. More data on Thursday
with the trade balance, jobless claims,
and the big one, the payrolls report for
the month of June. Then on Friday, the
long weekend begins, but you're probably
going to have one eye on the news, maybe
both. Markets might be closed, but
President Trump's self-imposed deadline
to pass his tax and spending bill kicks
in. A lot to look forward to. Michael
Kushner of Morgan Stanley believes we're
currently in a sweet spot for markets.
Doesn't feel like one, but we have the
unemployment report, budget
negotiations, tariff deadlines, all
coming up over the next 2 weeks or so.
Michael joins us now for more. Michael,
good morning. Good morning. It hasn't
felt like a sweet spot for markets. I
guess if you're away from all this and
you see the stock market at record
highs, it might feel good. But if you've
been in it, the last three months has
been brutal, hasn't it? Absolutely. I'm
really talking about the sweet spot from
all the worries that we had just a
couple weeks ago. All the negative
things which could happen have
dissipated, you know, at least for the
time being. But we've got this calendar
coming up this week and next couple of
weeks through July that are quite um
impressively potentially volatile. But
like the the the digital service tax
with Canada yesterday again positive
news at the margin just dripping it back
into the market to reduce the intensity
of worry. Early November when the
election happened we were wondering
whether this bond market would push
back. What would be the biggest
constraint on this particular bill down
in Washington DC and here we are and
this bond market is not pushing back at
all. Why? Uh I think it's this the
confidence that rates are going to be
cut. You know that the deterioration in
the labor market is going to continue
and that continuation in the labor
market and the idea of the Fed policy
being a balance between employment and
inflation. But as employment drifts
weaker relative to inflation,
inflation's been good the last couple of
months, but again it's been good
seasonally the last couple years as well
into the summer. That's why they cut
rates last last se September. Uh is it
going to deteriorate the next couple of
months? But if inflation deteriorate, I
mean, if the unemployment deteriorates,
I think the Fed will will react to that.
It seems as though the bond market and
stock market are getting excited about
different things. The stock market's
getting excited about AI and the
potential for things to be sort of
muddle along enough to allow companies
to keep innovating and possible
regulatory uh roll back. The bond
market's getting excited about enough
weakening that the Fed can cut, but not
too much weakening that it'll fall off a
cliff. Is that basically where we're at?
Exactly. rate cuts in a still growing
economy is is perfect. The economies
forecasted will deteriorate, you know,
1% growth and back to trend growth next
year as the Fed cut rates. How good a
combination is this? So why are we not
talking about the Fed cutting rates at a
time where the economy is still moving
forward to use Esther George's phrase
with a budget that is getting more
deficit driven and those fears still
here the dollar being sold institutional
investors overseas real questions about
how much they will be the incremental
buyer of treasuries why are we no longer
talking about that whole dynamic in the
long end um I we still think there's
going to be a steepening bias for that
reason um think about uh in terms of the
back 10ear yields longer that for we had
a savings glut in the old days and a
shortage of safe assets. The budget
deficits were shrinking in Europe, the
United States, shortage of safe assets.
Now we have an explosion of safe assets
and that's going to put demand for
demand to be substandard relative to the
supply of longerterm government bonds
whether it's European whether it's US or
other countries pressures on budgets
will continue which again gets back to
the point that why is the Fed going to
be cutting rates uh aggressively 100
base points in the next 12 months when
fiscal policy is where it is and
inflation's still problematic. Is this
dollar weakness trend you think here to
stay? I I think it is and mostly it's
it's valuation and the the the
underpinnings of the strong dollar are
slowly eroding. They're not collapsing
but they're eroding. It's the it's a
marginal change. If US is not going to
maintain a multi- percentage point
growth differential versus the rest of
the world just going to narrow a bit
given valuations where the dollar is
it's likely to fall. Fiscal policy is
being more expansionary outside the
United States maybe inside the United
States. Lisa has been talking about this
idea how the bond vigilantes maybe are
absent right now from this $3.3 trillion
to the deficit the CBO says this bill is
going to cost but maybe they're taking
it out when it comes to unwinding in the
dollar
dumpers is that what it is now I I think
that's potentially it that the world is
overweight dollar assets and for good
reason and the dollar has acted as a
good hedge for those assets the S&P went
down the dollar went up that was good it
balanced the risks of owning US assets
as that changes that there's be more
dollar hedging going on. So maybe not
selling dollar assets because look where
equities are. Why are we worried? But
the dollar maybe we should be hedging
our US assets going. Where are you
comfortable taking duration risk right
now? The whole world's on the menu by
the way. Where are you comfortable
taking that risk? I think it's sort of
in the shorter intermediate maturities.
Um less so today. So the answer is
nowhere. Well, the answer is no. Well,
we had this huge rally. We've had well
not huge but a really big rally in
two-year notes down to 375 with Fed
funds still 4 and a half. We have to
have you know 100 base points of rate
cuts in the next you know 9 to 12 months
to justify current pricing which is
justifiable if it does happen. Same
thing with 10-year treasuries is
potentially okay if we do deliver 100
basis points of rate cuts. If we do
deliver a 100 basis points of rate cuts
at a time where the economy is still
strong. What happens to the yield curve
though? And this really does ultimately
go to a question John asked earlier,
which is a really important one. Is
there a lesson from what we saw last
year from the Fed's 100 basis point rate
cut and what that could mean for this
one? Um, exactly. The last time we had
rate cuts last year, the minute they
finished rate cuts, 10-year Treasuries
went up in yield. I think that's the
same thing happened again. I'm not sure
Fed rate cuts help mortgage rates.
What's the president going to say when
that happens? That's precisely what
happened last year. I don't know. I
mean, what does he say? Does he blame
the Fed chair? Does he try to keep
Powell in there to try to blame him?
Does he say they should start
quantitative easing and essentially uh
monetize the debt, which is sort of the
worst case scenario for the dollar? How
do you jawbone this one? Or do you just
say rates are too high, cut more? I
mean, really, it's really unclear how
you message this when it's a very simple
message of get rates lower, facing off
with a very complicated economic reality
of which rate you're talking about. The
latter. It's not enough. Cut more. So
that brings in the later risk which is
means a new Fed chair later on in 2025.
What does all that mean to you? Um it it
means that uh monetary policy is going
to be um more uncertain ne next year.
But I'm not sure that a Fed chair of the
candidates that being banned about are
that wildly different than what we've
got today. It's a board of governors as
a committee. Um if you get oh Kevin
Walsh um one of these other gentlemen or
women that that are being proposed will
not radically change monetary policy. If
if we get conditions such that the
economy is weakening will get bigger
rate cuts. Well explore this with me.
What if it was the NEC director? What if
it was Kevin Hassid? Someone in the
administration now works closely with
the president when the president has
said very very clearly what he wants
from monetary policy and then selects
someone from within the team within the
white house within the west wing. It's
going to be a little unprecedented I
think in this. Do we sell bonds and sell
the dollar that morning? It would be
interesting to see how the board works,
how the FOMC works in I want to know
what the market would do beforehand. I
think it would be worried. The vote
would be to sell bonds, sell effects.
Yeah, I think so. That's the big risk.
That's why we keep saying the market's
going to get a vote on this long before
the Senate. And that's the reason why
it's sort of interesting that right now
the market's saying, "Okay, keep going."
Because right now, if you look at the
bond market, you're not seeing any sign
of real worry given the fact that we
just had the best rally going back uh to
February. Not the same kind of message
though coming from the dollar. And not
great music for the years of Kevin
Hasset either over at the NEC who some
people might think might think would do
a great job over at the Federal Reserve.
But the problem is the perception of the
market right now. How the market would
perceive a move like that and whether we
would just sell bonds and sell the
dollar in the face of that decision. If
you're worried about institutional
credibility and you put the person who
is in charge of orchestrating the Trump
agenda in charge of the Federal Reserve,
that independence gets challenged in a
very obvious and uh public way. Michael,
good to see you. It's great to catch up
as always. Michael Kushman there of
Morgan Stanley. As we've said repeatedly
throughout this morning, it is a
shortened trading week, but there's a
lot to get through, including payrolls
on Thursday and that self-imposed
deadline for the tax bill on Friday.
Then looking ahead to next week, we've
got the trade deadline on July 9th. The
week after that, we've got earnings for
JP Morgan. So, July is going to be a
busy month, that's for sure. Busier than
Q2. I don't think anything could be
busier than Q2. Don't say that. And I
think we're all looking forward to
leaving the second quarter. Oh, no.
Well, behind. One more day to go. Coming
up a little bit later this morning. Look
out for the interview with the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson in the next 40
minutes. Tomorrow, Julian Emanuel of
Everore, Eric Nelson of Wells Fargo, Bob
Michael of JP Morgan, Cameron Dawson of
New Edge Wealth, live from New York
City. Thank you for choosing Bloomberg
TV. We will see you in the second half.